EVENING AND WELCOME TO THE
APRIL 13TH MEETING OF THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION THE MEETING IS BEING
HELD ELECTRONICALLY AND IN
PERSON VISIT OR ELECTRONICALLY
ASSUME AND IN PERSON FOR THOSE
WHO WISH TO ATTEND MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC WHO WOULD LIKE TO
COMMENT ON HEARINGS OR OTHER
MATTERS MAY DO SO VIA TELEPHONE
ONLY TO SPEAK DURING ANY OF THE
PUBLIC COMMENT OPPORTUNITIES.
PLEASE EIGHT EIGHT EIGHT SEVEN
EIGHT EIGHT ZERO ZERO NINE NINE
AND INTERMEETING NINETY NINE
SIX FIVE THREE SIX SIX NINE
NINE SEVEN SIX TWO.
THIS INFORMATION IS ALSO
AVAILABLE ON THE PUBLISHED
AGENDA IN THE PUBLIC NOTICES
SECTION OF THE CITY WEBSITE AND
ON THE BROADCAST OF THIS
MEETING ON KEUN CHANNEL 16 AT&T
CHANNEL NINETY NINE AND ONLINE
AT WOODLY TO GOVERNOR FORWARD
SLASH WATCH CTM MISS THATCHER
WILL YOU PLEASE CALL ROLL.
YES FORNER HERE COMMISSIONER
ROCHLIN HERE COMMISSIONER
EVERSON HERE COMMISSIONER
KIYONO COMMISSIONER ROSS
COMMISSIONER RIGHT HERE
COMMISSIONER WILLIS HERE YOU
HAVE A QUORUM THANK YOU TO ITEM
C APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA THERE
ARE ANY ADDITIONS, DELETIONS OR
CHANGES TO TONIGHT'S AGENDA
HEARING AND SEE NO OBJECTION
THE THE AGENDA IS APPROVED AS
PRESENTED ONTO ITEM D PUBLIC
COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA TO
COMMENT ON SUCH OTHER
PRESERVATION MATTERS AGAIN,
PLEASE CALL EIGHT EIGHT EIGHT
SEVEN EIGHT EIGHT ZERO ZERO
NINE NINE INTERMEETING NINETY
NINE SIX FIVE THREE SIX SIX
NINE NINE SEVEN SIX TWO AGAIN
THIS INFORMATION IS ALSO
DISPLAYED ON THE MEETING AGENDA
AND VIDEO FEED CITY STAFF
SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED
THEIR HAND ONE BY ONE BY USING
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF YOUR
PHONE NUMBER IN ORDER TO
ELECTRONICALLY RAISE YOUR HAND
TO INDICATE YOUR DESIRE TO
SPEAK PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE ON
YOUR PHONE YOU'LL HEAR NOT AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
MISS THATCHER, DO WE HAVE ANY
CALLERS?
YES.
CALLER IN THREE, FOUR OR FIVE
I'M ABOUT TO PROMOTE YOU ALLOW
YOU TO TALK.
HI MY NAME IS KITTY.
CAN I LIVE IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT AND I'M
CALLING IN ONCE AGAIN ABOUT THE
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT FOR FOR
FIFTEEN YEARS WASHINGTON I KNOW
YOU'LL BE DISCUSSING THAT
PROJECT LATER TONIGHT.
I WILL BE VOTING ONCE AGAIN
FROM THE HISTORIC DISTRICT LINE
.
THIS IS FROM THE SECTION OF NEW
CONSTRUCTION IN A HISTORIC
DISTRICT NOT APPROPRIATE
INTRODUCING ANY NEW BUILDING
THAT IS OUT OF THE SCALE OR
OTHERWISE INAPPROPRIATE TO THE
SETTINGS HISTORIC HERE YOU'RE
INTRODUCING A NEW FEATURE THAT
IS VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE WITH
OR DESTROYS THE PATTERNS OF THE
SITE OR THE DISTRICT
INTRODUCING NEW CONSTRUCTION
ONTO A SITE OR IN A DISTRICT
WHICH IS USUALLY INCOMPATIBLE
IN TERMS OF SIZE SCALE DESIGN
MATERIALS AND TEXTURE OR WHICH
DESTROYS RELATIONSHIP AND THE
SITE OR THE DISTRICT UNQUOTE.
THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT FOR
415 WASHINGTON IS IN NO WAY
APPROPRIATE TO THE OLD WEST
SIDE.
IT IS NOT COMPATIBLE IN TERMS
OF SITE SIZE AND SCALE AND IT
WOULD DESTROY RELATIONSHIP WITH
THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
PLEASE STAND STRONG.
DO NOT CAVE TO THE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION.
DO NOT CAVE TO THE CITY COUNCIL
TO THE AGE DC GUIDELINES WHEN
YOU CONSIDER THE CITY'S PLANS
FOR 415 WEST WASHINGTON.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU MISS THATCHER.
DO WE HAVE OTHER COLLEAGUES?
WE DO.
NEXT UP IS COLLER ENDING IN
FIVE THREE FOUR WHICH IS NO WE
JUST HAD THREE FOUR FIVE OH
SEVEN.
>> YOU CAN GO AHEAD CALL IT I
GET YOU THIS IS STALWARTS I'M
CALLING FROM ROCHOW AND I AM A
PROPERTY OWNER AT 528 WEST
LIBERTY STREET WHERE I USED T
LIVE AND STILL MAINTAIN A
RENTAL BUT I'M CALLING ABOUT
THE IN WEST WASHINGTON
DISCUSSION THAT YOU'RE GOING TO
HAVE LAID OFF AS WELL.
>> I SPOKE AT COUNCIL AT THEIR
FIRST MEETING FOR THE
ZONING
FOR THIS AND GEOGRAPHICALLY
THAT THEY ARE REALLY DESIROUS
OF MOVING FORWARD WITH IT.
HOWEVER, THE APPLICATION OFFICE
IN WEST WASHINGTON CLEARLY DOES
NOT MEET THE INTENT OF MULTIPLE
LAWS AND POLICY AND THERE'S
BEEN A REAL MEANING TOWARDS
APPROVING SOMETHING AT THIS
SITE AND I UNDERSTAND THE
DESIRE FOR THAT.
I'M SAYING THAT A CLEAN UP
ISSUE THERE THE CITY IS
RESPONSIBLE FOR BUT WE HAVE TO
FOLLOW OUR POLICIES, OUR
GUIDELINES, FEDERAL POLICIES
AND GUIDELINES AND THE INTENT
OF THE LAW AS WELL AS THE
LETTER OF THE LAW.
LET ME READ ONE PART OF THE UDC
THIS PROPOSAL THE PREMIUM
OPTIONS MAY BE APPLIED ONLY A
LOT ARE LOCATED ENTIRELY OUT
OF THE HISTORIC DISTRICT.
THAT PREMIUM REFERS TO THE D TO
PREMIUM WHICH CAN TAKE TWO FROM
SIXTY MAXIMUM OF THE 73.
THIS IS CLEARLY IN OUR VIEW WE
SEE THAT THE INTENT IS TO NOT
EXCEED THAT 60 FOOT IF WE'RE
USING A BASE OF B TO WHICH THE
APPLICANT IS USING THE BASE TO
USE A PAD OR ANOTHER METHOD TO
GET AROUND THE LAW AGAIN THIS
IS ESSENTIALLY SAYS YOU CAN'T
DO THAT.
GO BACK TO THE OF OUR IN A VERY
SHORT DISTANCE.
>> I HAVEN'T BEEN CHALLENGED
HERE.
THEY SHOULD HAVE BROUGHT THE
PROJECT TO YOU THAT WAS
DESIGNED TO BE COMPATIBLE WITH
THE SURROUNDING BUILDINGS IN
THE DISTRICT, SPECIFICALLY THE
CONTRIBUTING TO THE DISTRICT.
>> THEY KEEP COMPARING THIS IN
THEIR APPLICATION TO BUILDINGS
OUTSIDE THE DISTRICT OR TO
NONCONTRIBUTING IN THE DISTRICT
ESSENTIAL BUILDING FOR THE
CONSERVATIVE STRUCTURE IN THE
DISTRICT.
>> AND I KNOW THAT SOME OF YOU
HAVE REALLY TAKEN THAT TO HEART
AND MENTIONED THAT AND I KNOW
THE WORD MOVING.
IT'S BEEN USED A COUPLE
OF TIMES.
>> I DON'T THINK I SHOULD COME
TO YOU WITH AN APPLICATION THAT
STARTS AT SEVENTY THREE WHEN
THE INTENT IS SIXTY FOUR
MAXIMUM AND SIXTY BE TO TALK TO
I DON'T KNOW WHAT BOOMING.
>> YES THAT'S UP TO YOU TO
DECIDE BUT THIS APPLICATION I
DON'T FEEL IS IT'S A NONSTARTER
THE WAY IT'S BEEN BROUGHT TO I
KNOW YOU'RE GOING TO DISCUSS IT
I TRUST YOUR JUDGMENT ON THIS
THEY SHOW YOU MULTIPLE DRAWINGS
I KNOW TWO ITERATIONS AGO LASTS
FOR SOME OTHER USE DRAWINGS AND
WHEN THE LAST GENERATION CAME
HERE THEY DIDN'T PRODUCE THOSE
SO THAT YOU REALLY DON'T YOU
HAVE A WORKING SESSION NOT ANY
FORM OF VOTING SESSION ON THIS.
>> I BELIEVE THAT THEY COULD
HAVE DONE BETTER GIVING YOU THE
INFORMATION AND I WAS GOING TO
GO TO COUNCIL AND THEY'RE GOING
TO PASS ON BUT IT'S NEVER
FORMALLY BEFORE YOU SEE WHERE
YOU CAN APPLY THE CRITERIA TO
SPECIFIC APPLICATION.
WE'VE GIVEN THEM SOME INPUT.
I HOPE THAT YOU CAN CONTINUE TO
LOOK AT THIS WITHIN THE PURVIEW
OF THE ACTC, UNDER THE
GUIDELINES OF THE CDC AND THE
STANDARDS THAT YOU'RE SUPPOSED
TO REVIEW IT BY.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
IF ANY OTHER CALLERS IN ZOOME
WAITING ROOM WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK PLEASE HIT STAR NINE ON
YOUR PHONE TO RAISE YOUR HAND
OK COLLAR ENDING IN SEVEN SEVEN
NINE I'M ALLOWING YOU TO TALK
.
HELLO HELLO HELLO.
YOU CAN GO AHEAD.
MY NAME IS IAN COLVIN.
I LIVE NEAR PERFECT WEST
WASHINGTON AND I AM VERY
CONCERNED ABOUT THE APPEARANCE
OF A HUGE BUILDING THERE AND
SOMETHING THAT WILL BE LIKE A
WALL BETWEEN OUR NEIGHBORHOOD
AND THE DOWNTOWN.
>> SO I HOPE THAT YOUR GROUP
CAN CONSIDER THE EFFECT OF THAT
WHEN YOU'RE DECIDING THANK YOU
FOR YOUR WORK.
THANK YOU
.
ALL RIGHT, LAST CHANCE ANYONE
IN THE WAITING ROOM HIT STAR
NINE ON YOUR PHONE
.
OK, I THINK THAT'S IT FOR THE
ZOOMER ROOM.
>> WANT TO OPEN UP TO ANYONE IN
CHAMBERS?
YEAH, IS THERE ANYONE IN THE
COUNCIL CHAMBERS TONIGHT?
I WOULD LIKE TO MAKE ANY PUBLIC
COMMENT ABOUT SOMETHING THAT'S
NOT ON THE HEARING.
RIGHT.
I'LL CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING
PORTION OF TONIGHT'S MEETING
AND ON TO ITEM IX UNFINISHED
BUSINESS.
WE DO HAVE THE UNFINISHED
BUSINESS ON TWO HUNDRED SOUTH
MAIN STREET THATCHER PLEASE
GIVE THE STAFF REPORT
.
ALL RIGHT.
TWO HUNDRED TWELVE MAIN STREET
IS IN THE MAIN STREET HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
THIS IS A RETURNING ITEM AS
YOU'LL RECALL MOST OF THE
APPLICATION WAS APPROVED TWO
MEETINGS AGO THIS ONE THIS
PORTION WAS POSTPONED.
IT'S THE FOOD PICK UP LOCKERS
IN THE REAR OF THE BUILDING THE
ON THE NORTH SIDE NEAR THE BACK
.
LET'S SEE.
I'M JUST GOING TO GO THROUGH
THE ONLY PICTURE THAT I HAVE
THAT'S ALL THAT REALLY SHOWED
THAT AREA.
BUT I SHOW THIS TO YOU LAST
TIME TO THIS IS THE AREA IN
QUESTION THESE FROM THE
PREVIOUS REVIEW COMMITTEE
PHOTOS.
THIS IS THE SIDE OF THE REAR
ENTRANCE THAT THE FOOTLOCKER
WOULD BE INSTALLED IN AND THE
NEW INFORMATION WAS SUBMITTED
FOR THIS WORK.
IT INCLUDES THE VARIOUS COLOR
SCHEMES WHICH WE DON'T
REGULATE.
BUT I APPRECIATE SEEING THE
PROPOSAL IS TO PAINT THE METAL
PANELS AND LET ME GET DOWN TO
THE THE SIGNAGE CAME IN TOO
LATE TO BE INCLUDED AT THIS
MEETING BUT SINCE LATER ON
TONIGHT WE'RE WE'RE CONSIDERING
A STAFF APPROVAL FOR SIGNS.
YOU HAVE ANY COMMENTS ON THESE
PICTURES?
FEEL FREE TO TELL ME ASSUMING
THAT THAT ALL THAT GOES WELL.
HERE'S THE NEW INFORMATION ON
THE FOOD LOCKERS.
WE HAVE THE TAKE AWAY MACHINE
HERE VENDOME AT THESE ARE THE
EXISTING METAL PANELS AND THE
EXISTING STONE BASE CAKE PLATE
AND THIS IS THE SIZE THEY
AREN'T CUT DOWN OR ANYTHING.
SO THIS FOOD IS FIT WITHIN THE
SPACE BETWEEN THE DOOR AND
THESE METAL PANELS WHICH IS
APPRECIATED.
THERE'S THERE'S STAMPED ENTRY
STAMP CONCRETE IN THE ENTRY
WAY.
HERE'S THE ENTRY WAY.
THIS IS THE DOOR THAT YOU SEE
WHEN YOU'RE LOOKING IN FROM
WEST WASHINGTON STREET AND SO
THE FOOD LOCKERS WOULD BE ON
YOUR LEFT WHEN YOU WALK IN.
THERE WERE SOME DETAILS
INCLUDED HERE.
I DID HAVE A QUESTION WHEN IT'S
THE APPLICANTS TURN TO TALK
ABOUT IT SAYS THAT IT WILL BE
SIX INCHES OFF OF GRADE
WONDERING WHAT WILL HAPPEN IN
THAT SIX INCHES BELOW THE THE
THE FOOD LOCKERS.
I DON'T HAVE A LOT MORE TO ADD
TO THIS SINCE WE TALKED ABOUT
IT A LITTLE BIT PREVIOUSLY.
BUT THERE ARE SOME MORE
SPECIFIC DIMENSIONS ON HERE AND
THEY'RE RETAINING THIS RECESSED
LIGHTING FIXTURE UP HERE AND
RETROFITTING IT WITH NEW
LIGHTING SOURCES.
AND I REALLY DON'T HAVE MUCH
MORE TO ADD ON HERE.
WE'VE ALREADY BEEN THROUGH THE
STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES FOR
THIS NUMBERS ONE TO NINE AND
TEN BEST APPLY AND FOUR
STOREFRONTS SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR GUIDELINES.
RIGHT.
I DON'T RECOMMEND INTRODUCING A
NEW DESIGN THAT'S INCOMPATIBLE
IN SIZE SCALE MATERIAL AND
COLOR.
I HAVE NO CONCERNS TO EXPRESS
ABOUT THIS.
SO THAT'S IT FOR STAFF.
THERE IS A POSSIBLE MOTION IF
YOU SHOULD CHOOSE TO USE IT ON
THE MEMO FOR THIS.
THANK YOU.
THANKS MR. ARCHER.
WHO WERE THE COMMISSIONERS ON
THE REVIEW COMMITTEE?
WE DO NOT NEED TO KNOW SO WE
WE'RE GOING TO PREVIOUS REVIEW.
OK, SOUNDS GOOD.
SO THAT WAS ME AND COMMISSIONER
WILL WITH THE APPLICANT PLEASE
STEP FORWARD AND STATE YOUR
NAME FOR THE RECORD AND YOU
HAVE UP TO FIVE MINUTES IF
YOU'D LIKE TO ADD ANYTHING TO
THE REVIEW OR TO THE STAFF
REPORT.
HELLO GOOD EVENING.
JONATHAN BURNHAM AT HUB'S BLACK
ARCHITECTURE FIRM REPRESENTING
THE ECHELON GROUP TODAY.
YEAH LIKE I'D LIKE I'D LIKE TO
MENTION WE DID DO OUR BEST
ABILITY TO KIND OF TALK THAT
FOOTLOCKER BACK A WEIGHT GROUP
SO DIDN'T HAVE VERY SIGNIFICANT
PRESENCE ON THE STREET AND WE
DID OUR BEST TO UPDATE THE
DESIGN ACCORDINGLY SO THAT IT
IT ALL ONE COHESIVE DESIGN THIS
FOOTLOCKER.
I WILL MENTION THAT IT'S A
DIFFERENT ONE THAN WE
PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED DUE TO A
COUPLE OF FACTORS.
THIS ONE IS RATED FOR AN
EXTERIOR USE SO IT WILL LAST A
LOT LONGER.
WE WON'T HAVE TO UPDATE
ANYTHING LIKE THAT AND THERE
ARE A COUPLE LIKE VERY SPECIFIC
ITEMS.
ONE WE CAN CUSTOMIZE THE COLOR
WE'RE GOING TO CUSTOMIZE THE
COLOR TO BEST HIDE BACK THERE.
IT'S NOT GOING TO BE A VERY
PROMINENT COLOR.
I THINK WE LOCATED ON THE
SUBMITTAL THAT IT'S GOING TO
POWDER COATED BLACK.
ANOTHER ITEM IS THAT THIS WILL
NOT REMAIN ILLUMINATED.
THERE'LL BE A 12 INCH SQUARE
THAT'LL BE ELIMINATED.
THAT'S LIKE THE TOUCH SCREEN.
THE OTHER ONES WILL ONLY
ILLUMINATE ONCE SOMEBODY TYPES
IN THEIR CODE AND THAT'S THE
LOCKER THEY CHOOSE.
SO IT'S NOT GOING TO BE LIKE
THIS LIKE AUDACIOUS THING
THAT'S STANDING OUT AND HAVE A
LOT OF A LOT OF VISIBILITY
OTHER THAN THAT.
YEAH, SOME OF THE MATERIALS WE
SELECTED WERE
JUST JUST AN
UPDATED VERSION OF WHAT'S
ALREADY THERE SOME OF THE
MOSAIC TILES WITH A NICE BORDER
AT THE FRONT AND THE BACK SIDE
IS GOING TO BE THE STANDARD
CONCRETE.
IT'S GOING TO GO WITH OUR
DESIGN THAT BACK ENTRY IS
ALREADY A CONCRETE ENTRY SO
WE'LL HAVE TO TAKE THAT
CONCRETE OUT WATERPROOF BECAUSE
IT DOES SIT ABOVE OUR BASEMENT
AND THEN PUT A NEW FRESH
COAT OF CONCRETE ON THERE.
THE OTHER THING THE LAST THING
I THINK I WOULD LIKE TO MENTION
IS THAT WE DID INCLUDE SOME
COLOR SCHEMES JUST TO GIVE YOU
A BETTER OVER SORT OF OVERALL
SENSE.
I REALIZE THAT IT MAY NOT BE
NECESSARILY APPROPRIATE FOR THE
APPROVAL PROCESS BUT I THINK IT
KIND OF TIES EVERYTHING
TOGETHER A LITTLE BIT.
AND THEN THE LAST THING WAS WE
ARE HOLDING THIS UP SIX INCHES
DUE TO BASICALLY THE
MANUFACTURER RECOMMENDATION.
SO WHAT WE CAN DO IS WE CAN
RAISE IT UP PRESSURE TREATED
WOOD PLATFORM AND THEN WHATEVER
THAT TREATMENT THAT IS VISIBLE
WE WILL PAINT TO MATCH THE REST
OF THE METAL PANELING.
SO IF IT'S LIKE A CHARCOAL OR
GRAY IT WILL IT WILL ALL BE
COHESIVE SO IT'S NOT GOING TO
LOOK LIKE IT'S NOT SUPPOSED TO
BE THERE.
RIGHT.
IT'LL BE A NICE PRESSURE
TREATED THE OTHER YEAH.
I THINK I'LL LEAVE IT AT THAT
AND WE'LL WE'LL JUST PAINT IT
TO MATCH SO IT KIND OF FADES
AWAY A LITTLE BIT THAN THAT TOP
BANDING IF YOU GO TO THAT I
THINK IT MIGHT BE THE THIRD
PHOTO IT DOES HAVE LIKE WE'LL
INCLUDE THE SIGNAGE AND IT'S
LIKE A SIGN BAND IN THERE BUT
IT'S JUST THAT IT'S ONLY AT THE
TOP OF THE OF THE PIECE
OF EQUIPMENT THAT WE'RE SAYS
TAKE AWAY THAT MIGHT SAY LIKE A
LOGO BUT OTHER THAN THAT
NOTHING WE'RE ADDING ANY
LIGHTING THE LIGHTING THAT'S UP
THERE RIGHT NOW WILL BE
REPLACED WITH AN LED THAT'S AN
EQUIVALENT SIZE THAT FLANGE
WILL TRY TO KEEP IT TO THE
EXACT SIZE BUT I THINK IT'S
LIKE A TWO BY TWO FOOT LINEAR
LIGHT.
SO PRETTY SMALL TOWN.
>> DID YOU SEE THIS SCREEN ON
ALL THE TIME OR ONLY WHEN
SOMEBODY IS ILLUMINATED IF IT'S
ON SO THERE WILL BE PORTIONS
OF THE TIME THAT I DON'T THINK
THAT IT WILL BE ON LIKE PAST
HOURS THEN THAT THAT PIECE
OF MACHINERY IS OK.
THAT'S RIGHT BECAUSE NOBODY'S
GOING TO BE SERVICING IT WHILE
IT'S ON AND IT'S IN OPERATION
THAT'S GOING TO BE THE ONLY
ILLUMINATED PORTION.
BUT THANK YOU FOR COMMISSIONERS
.
DO YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS FOR
THE APPLICANT COMMISSIONER?
I JUST I DO HAVE A COUPLE
OF QUESTIONS BUT FIRST ONE AT
THE TOP OF MY HEAD IS JUST TO
CLARIFY ARE YOU REMOVING THE
METAL PANELS THAT ARE THERE
EXISTING AND REPLACING THEM
WITH PAINTED METAL PANELS?
ARE YOU PAINTING THE EXISTING
METAL PAINT?
>> WE WILL BE PAINTING THE
EXISTING METAL PANELS, THE
METAL HAVE A COAT ON THEM.
YEAH.
SO WE'LL HAVE TO DO I THINK WE
MENTIONED THIS LAST TIME BUT
THE SCARF I HAD A LITTLE BIT
AND YEAH.
AND ANY PANELS THAT WE ARE
REMOVING FOR THIS WE WILL STORE
IN CASE WE COME BACK AND HAVE
TO REPLACE IT SO SO WE WILL
SALVAGE THEM AND KEEP THEM AND
SAVE THAT WAS THAT WAS MY NEXT
QUESTION IS IS RELATED TO THAT
AND JUST EVERYTHING THAT I'M
SEEING I'M I'M IT'S CLEAR
EXCEPT FOR HOW MUCH OF THE
METAL PANELS YOU'RE REMOVING
FROM THAT HALLWAY AND THERE'S A
THERE'S A PHOTO EARLY IN THE
STAFF REPORT.
>> YES.
YES.
SO BASED ON THE MATH FIFTY SIX
MINUS FORTY TWO IS FOURTEEN.
SO THERE'S GOING TO 14 INCHES
FROM THE SIDEWALK.
>> CORRECT IN AND SO SO WHAT'S
THAT GOING TO LOOK LIKE.
>> SO WHAT WE MIGHT HAVE TO DO
AND IT WON'T BE COMING DOWN
TILL WE GET TO THE CDS AND
REALLY REALLY DO A DEEP DOVE
INTO THIS.
BUT YOU'RE RIGHT ABOUT 14
INCHES IN THE FIRST PANEL
RETURNS ONLY ABOUT SIX.
YEAH.
SO WHAT WE'LL DO IS TAKE THAT
FULL THE FULL TWO METAL PANELS
OUT, SALVAGE THOSE AND THEN
WHAT WE HAVE TO DO IS JUST
MATCH THE SEAM LINE AND MAKE A
METAL PANELS TO KIND OF GO IN
THERE SO THAT IT'S ALL LIKE ONE
IT LOOKS LIKE IT WAS
INTENTIONAL BECAUSE I'D HATE TO
SEE LIKE A DIFFERENT MATERIAL
INTRODUCED.
SO I THINK THAT MAKES MORE
SENSE AND IF YOU FIND THAT
APPROPRIATE, I THINK THAT'S THE
BEST COURSE OF ACTION.
BUT YEAH, THAT BECAUSE I THINK
THAT TOP THAT TOP DOES RETURN
AND IT'S VERY CLOSE TO THAT
FOURTEEN THAT MIGHT BE TWELVE
BUT YEAH WE'LL TRY TO MATCH AND
I SEE A JOINT LINE.
>> THANKS FOR THAT TO THE
INTENT IS TO USE NEW METAL
PANELS WHERE YOU GO USING METAL
PANELS AND IT'S GOING TO BE A
REAL SMALL SLIVER BUT I WANT TO
KEEP THAT HORIZONTAL BANDING
THAT JOINT THE SAME SO IT WILL
MATCH OK, I JUST WANT TO
CLARIFY YOU'RE NOT CUTTING THE
EXISTING NO REMOVE THEM ALL OK.
YEAH YEAH OK THEN THE OTHER
QUESTION RIGHT NOW OPEN THIS TO
THE PUBLIC.
UM THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
APPLICATION AT TWO HUNDRED
SOUTH MAIN STREET AGAIN PUBLIC
COMMENT MAY BE MADE BY CALLING
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN PLEASE
INTERMEDIATED NINE SIX FIVE
THREE SIX SIX NINE NINE SEVEN
SIX TWO AND PRESS STAR NINE ON
YOUR PHONE IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO
MAKE COMMENT STATURE DO WE HAVE
ANY CALLERS?
YES FOR 200 S ME YES.
CALLER FIVE THREE FOUR WHICH
MAY BE TOM BUT HE MAY WANT TO
SPEAK ON THIS AND IT MAY BE A
DIFFERENT CALLER ENDING IN FIVE
THREE FOUR.
NO HE'S LEFT OK NOW THERE ARE
NO COLORS, NO COLORS ARE SO
CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING FOR
THIS PUBLIC SORRY PUBLIC
COMMENT PORTION FOR THIS
HEARING SEE IS THERE
COMMISSIONER THAT I'D LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION ON THIS
APPLICATION?
MR. FORD, I MOVE THAT THE
COMMISSION ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
APPROPRIATE FOR THE APPLICATION
AT TWO HUNDRED SOUTH MAIN
STREET, A CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY
IN THE MAIN STREET HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO ADD A FOOD EXCUSE
ME PICK UP LOCKER IN THE
VESTIBULE NEAR THE NORTHWEST
CORNER CORNER OF THE BUILDING
REQUIRED A CHILD COLUMN AT THE
NORTHEAST CORNER OF THE FIRST
FLOOR WITH NEW TILES AND WOOD
AND REPLACE THE TILE FLOOR AND
PAINT ENAMELED STEEL PANELING
OF THE NORTHWEST CORNER OF THE
BUILDING TO MATCH THE ETHOS ON
THE FRONT OF THE BUILDING AS
PROPOSED THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE
IN EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL AND
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING IN THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND IT'S THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR STOREFRONTS AND
THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
AND GUIDELINES FOR
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS ONE TO NINE AND TEN
AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
STOREFRONTS SECOND MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER FORTNER SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER WHITE CENTER
DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION FROM
LAND COMMISSIONER.
>> I THOUGHT THE NEW
INFORMATION WAS HELPFUL SO I'M
GLAD WE POSTPONE THIS PART
OF THE APPLICATION.
I THINK THAT IT IS CLEAR NOW
WHAT THE INTENT IS.
THE FEW QUESTIONS THAT REMAIN I
THINK ARE ARE OK AND I THINK
SINCE IT'S TALKED OUT OF THE
WAY IT IS DARK MOST OF THE TIME
THE PANELS AREN'T CONTRIBUTING
FOR YOU KNOW, FOR ALL THOSE
FACTORS I THINK I'LL BE
SUPPORTING IT.
>> YEAH, I AGREE.
I THINK HAVING THE ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION ESPECIALLY SINCE
THIS IS REALLY THE FIRST TIME
WE'VE SEEN THIS KIND
OF FOOTLOCKER OR AT LEAST COME
BEFORE THE COMMISSION THINGS
LIKE IS IT ILLUMINATED ALL THE
TIME AND HOW LONG IS IT
ILLUMINATOR IN THE SCREEN AND
YOU KNOW, EXACTLY WHERE IS IT
GOING IF IT'S ON THE PUBLIC
FACE AND HOW IT'S INTERFACING
WITH THE YOU KNOW, EXISTING
BUILDING MATERIALS, I THINK
JUST UNDERSTANDING THOSE THOSE
THE SCALE OF IT AND THE SIZE
OF IT EXACTLY IS REALLY
IMPORTANT.
SO I APPRECIATE YOU COMING BACK
AND BRINGING AND HEARING THAT
AND LISTENING AND BRINGING
EXTRA INFORMATION.
I THINK THE REST OF THE
REMAINDER OF THE APPLICATION IS
PRETTY CLEAR AS FAR AS WHAT
THEY WANT TO DO IN THE THE AT
THE FRONT ENTRY AND TREATMENT
ON THAT READY TO VOTE ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE
SAY YES.
YES.
ALL OF THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
NO WRITE YOUR MOTION CARRIES.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
GOOD NIGHT TO YOU TOO.
ALL RIGHT.
YOU'RE GOING TO SEE I HAVE ONE
THIS IS 634 TURNER PARK CAUGHT
THE STATUE.
WILL YOU PLEASE GIVE THE STAFF
REPORT NOW WE MOVE OVER TO THE
OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
.
>> THIS UNIQUE STRUCTURAL CLAY
TILE HOME WAS BUILT IN 1928 AS
A GARAGE BELOW AND RESIDENTS
ABOVE THE ONE STOREY EDITION ON
THE SOUTH END THAT WE'LL BE
TALKING ABOUT TONIGHT OVER HERE
BY THIS CAR WAS PRESENT BY
NINETEEN THIRTY ONE AND WAS
ALSO AN AUTOMOBILE GARAGE.
ORIGINALLY THE FIREPLACE AND
CHIMNEY YOU'RE ON THE RIGHT
SIDE.
THE COOL COBBLESTONE ONE WERE
ADDED IN NINETEEN FORTY NINE
PER BUILDING PERMIT RECORDS AT
SOME POINT AFTER NINETEEN FORTY
EIGHT THE LOWER LEVEL WAS
CONVERTED TO LIVING SPACE AND
THE NUMEROUS GARAGE DOOR
OPENINGS WERE FILLED WITH
WINDOWS SOME ABOVE STONEMASONRY
WHICH YOU CAN SEE HERE.
IT SEEMS LIKELY THAT THIS WAS
AN AUTOMOBILE GARAGE DOOR.
THIS WAS ANOTHER GARAGE DOOR
AND THIS ONE THAT STILL LOOKS
LIKE A GARAGE DOOR WAS A GARAGE
DOOR AND THIS ONE CLEARLY HAS
BEEN CONVERTED TO AN ENTRYWAY
ALTHOUGH THAT'S JUST
SPECULATION THERE MAY HAVE ONLY
BEEN TWO BASE LIGHTS, NO MORE
MOVING SOUTH HERE.
THIS IS THE WING OF THE HOUSE
THAT WE'RE THAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT.
SO THIS WAS BUILT AS A GARAGE
DURING THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE.
IT WAS CONVERTED TO LIVING
SPACE SOMETIME AFTER NINETEEN
FORTY EIGHT IT STILL IS THE
GARAGE DOOR WHICH IS VERY COOL
AND LOOKS GREAT AND MOVING
AROUND NOW WE'RE MOVING AROUND
THE THE LEFT AND HERE THE SOUTH
END IT'S GOT THESE TWO VERY
LARGE WINDOWS
AND IF YOU KEEP
GOING AROUND THE BUILDING THERE
ARE TWO MORE VERY LARGE STEEL
WINDOWS ON THE BACK OF THE
GARAGE SINCE IT WOULD BE HIGHLY
IRREGULAR FOR AN AUTOMOBILE
GARAGE TO HAVE FOUR VERY LARGE
STEEL WINDOWS.
I DON'T HAVE ANY PROOF OF IT
BUT IT'S EXTREMELY LIKELY THAT
THEY WERE ADDED WHEN THE WHEN
WAS CONVERTED TO RESIDENTIAL
AFTER NINETEEN FORTY EIGHT
THEY'RE THERE WERE SOME REPORTS
FROM THE OWNER THAT IT COULD
HAVE BEEN AN ARTIST'S STUDIO.
SOME NEIGHBORS SAID THERE MIGHT
HAVE BEEN ARTIST STUDIO IN
THERE NEVERTHELESS IS IT IS YOU
KNOW INDOOR LIVING SPACE NOW
IT'S CLIMATE CONTROLLED AND
EVERYTHING THESE WINDOWS SO THE
WINDOWS ARE NOT FROM THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE AND FURTHER
THEY'VE BEEN ALTERED BY ADDING
THIS DOUBLE HUNG WINDOW IN THE
MIDDLE WHICH WOULD NORMALLY
HAVE LIKE AN AWNING WINDOW OR
OR A CASEMENT WINDOW THERE IN
THE CENTER.
SO THAT'S KIND OF UNUSUAL AND
WE DID A LOT OF LOOKING AT THE
DIFFERENT CONSTRUCTION HERE.
YOU CAN SEE HOW THESE BRICKS GO
GO HALFWAY DOWN BUT AT THE
CORNERS AND OVER HERE THEY GO
ALL THE WAY DOWN BUT IN THE
MIDDLE WE ONLY GET PAIRS
OF BRICKS SO THERE'S NOTHING
CONSISTENT ALL THE WAY AROUND
ALTHOUGH IT'S ALL EXTREMELY,
VERY COOL AND COMPATIBLE
LOOKING.
HERE'S A PHOTO FROM THE INSIDE.
THESE ARE THE GARAGE DOORS ON
THE INSIDE AND THEN THESE ARE
THOSE BIG WINDOWS AND THESE ARE
THE WINDOWS THAT FACE THE BACK.
IF YOU'LL NOTICE THEY LOOK OUT
DIRECTLY ONTO THE NEIGHBORS
GARAGE THIS GARAGE IS BEHIND A
HOUSE ON FIFTH STREET SO THIS
IS TURNER PARK COURT.
FIFTH STREET IS OVER HERE ON
THE LEFT.
SO YOU CAN SEE THAT THE LOT IS
REALLY TIGHT AROUND THE
BUILDING THERE ARE TWO HOUSES
AND AT THIS BUILDING AND THE
TWO HOUSES USED TO ALL BE ON
ONE LOT.
SO AT SOME POINT SOMEBODY HAD
TO DRAW SOME LINES TO DIVIDE
THEM UP AND THERE'S NOT A LOT
OF YARD LEFT HERE.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THERE'S ONLY
EIGHT FEET IN THE BACK AND
SEVEN FEET IN THE FRONT.
SO THE PROPOSAL IS TO INFILL
THREE QUARTERS OF THE TWO
WINDOWS THAT FACE WEST THAT
FACE THE NEIGHBOR'S GARAGE AND
TO REPLACE THE TWO WINDOWS THAT
THEY S WITH NOT REPLICA WINDOWS
BUT VERY CLOSE COPIES OF THEM.
THEY OBVIOUSLY HAVE TO DOUBLE
PANE GLASS WHICH IS A BIG
IMPROVEMENT AND THEY WOULD HAVE
ON WINDOWS IN THE MIDDLE.
SO THESE ARE THE TWO THAT FACE
THE BACK THAT WOULD BE INFELD
THE PROPORTIONS OF THE TOP ROW
OF WINDOWS WOULD MATCH WHICH IS
APPRECIATED AND THEY JUST BE
FILLED IN BELOW THE PHIL WOULD
BE SMALL STONES IN WATER THAT
WOULD BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE
OTHER POST PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE OPENINGS THAT
WERE FILLED IN THE STONES THAT
THEY WANT TO USE THEY SAID
WOULD BE A LITTLE BIT SMALLER
WHICH IS GOOD.
SO IT'LL BE COMPATIBLE BUT NOT
EXACTLY THE SAME.
THESE ARE PHOTOS A LITTLE BIT
BETTER PHOTOS FROM THE
APPLICANT THAT SHOW HERE'S THE
YOU CAN SEE HOW CLOSE THIS
GARAGES IS ONLY SEVEN FEET
APART EIGHT FEET APART HERE.
THIS IS AN EXISTING INFILL
THESE ARE PICTURE OF THE STONES
THAT THEY'D HAVE TO SORT
THROUGH AND GET, YOU KNOW,
COMPATIBLE SIZES.
BUT I THINK THAT THAT'S A
REASONABLE WAY TO DO IT AND
THIS IS A MOCK UP OF WHAT IT
MIGHT LOOK LIKE ON THE INSIDE
WITH THOSE TWO INFILL WINDOWS
ALL RIGHT.
LET ME SWITCH BACK TO MY STAFF
REPORT HERE
FROM THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS.
NUMBER TWO SAYS THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF A PROPERTY WILL BE
RETAINED AND PRESERVED THE
REMOVAL OF DISTINCTIVE
MATERIALS OR ALTERATION
OF FEATURES AND SPATIAL
RELATIONSHIPS THAT CHARACTERIZE
A PROPERTY WILL BE AVOIDED.
NO.9 SAYS NEW ADDITIONS,
EXTERIOR ALTERATIONS OR RELATED
NEW CONSTRUCTION SHALL NOT
DESTROY HISTORIC MATERIALS THAT
CHARACTERIZE THE PROPERTY.
THE NEW WORK WILL BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD AND
SHALL BE COMPATIBLE WITH A
MASSIVE SIZE SCALE AND
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES TO
PROTECT THE HISTORIC INTEGRITY
OF THE PROPERTY AND ITS
ENVIRONMENT.
THE SECRETARY INTERIOR'S
GUIDELINES FOR WINDOWS
RECOMMENDED PLACING IN AN
ENTIRE WINDOW THAT'S TOO
DETERIORATED TO REPAIR USING
THE SAME FASHION CONFIGURATION
AND OTHER DESIGN DETAILS.
KEEP IN MIND THE WINDOWS WERE
INSTALLED AFTER THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE BUT STILL A
GOOD THING TO KEEP IN MIND
SINCE SINCE THE WINDOWS ARE SO
VERY COMPATIBLE WITH THE
BUILDING RIGHT NOW NOT
RECOMMENDED AS INSTALLING NEW
WINDOWS THAT ARE INCOMPATIBLE
WITH THE BUILDING'S HISTORIC
APPEARANCE OR OBSCURE DAMAGE OR
DESTROY CHARACTER DEFINING
FEATURES.
ALL RIGHT.
I DON'T THINK I HAVE MUCH MORE
ON THIS STAFF.
JUST THINK THAT THE WORK IS
COMPATIBLE WITH THE HISTORIC
STRUCTURE WOULD NOT DISPLACE
ANY HISTORIC MATERIALS AND THE
WORK MEETS THE STANDARDS
GUIDELINES AND IN OUR
GUIDELINES.
THANK YOU, MISS THATCHER.
UM, COMMISSIONER, ONE MORE ON
THE REVIEW COMMITTEE.
WE PLEASE GIVE YOUR REPORT AND
RECOMMENDATION.
WELL, I YOU KNOW, DON'T HAVE
MUCH TO ABBEY ON THE STAFF
REPORT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT NON
HISTORIC WINDOWS AND NON
HISTORIC OPENINGS IN A BUILDING
THAT HAS LOTS HAS HAD A LOT
ALTERATION AND A LOT
OF DIFFERENT SIDING MATERIALS.
SO I THINK THIS IS ALL
COMPATIBLE.
YEAH, I AGREE WITH THAT.
I WOULD SAY I DO AGREE WITH
WITH STAFF LIKE REALLY?
WELL FIRST OF ALL I APPRECIATE
THE LIKE INVESTIGATIVE NATURE
OF THE STAFF REPORT AND I AGREE
WITH IT THAT THE MOST LIKELY
SCENARIO IS THAT THESE WINDOWS
WERE ADDED AFTER A PERIOD BASED
ON ALL THE FACTS OF THE CASE
HERE.
ANOTHER THING TO NOTE IT'S KIND
OF WAY UP THERE ON TURNER PARK
ROAD OR COURT BUT WE WERE TOLD
THAT THERE IS QUITE A BIT
OF FOOT TRAFFIC THAT GOES PAST
THERE SINCE WURSTER PARK IS
RIGHT BEHIND THEM AND IT'S I
THINK A LOT OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD
FIFTH STREET AND BEYOND KIND
OF FILTERS DOWN THROUGH THERE
AND CUTS OVER TO WURSTER PARK
THROUGH RIGHT THROUGH THIS LOT
APPARENTLY.
AND SO IT WILL BE SEEN BY A LOT
OF PEDESTRIANS BUT NOT FROM A
RIGHT AWAY.
THEY'RE OUT THERE ON PRIVATE
PROPERTY THERE BUT THANKFULLY
FROM THE RIGHT AWAY YOU YOU
CAN'T REALLY SEE ALL OF THE
WORK.
SO AGAIN WITH THE STANDARDS IT
SEEMS LIKE THINGS ARE ARE
LOOKING GOOD.
THAT'S IT.
THANK YOU.
APPLICANT IS IN THE ROOM PLEASE
STEP FORWARD OR AND YOU CAN
STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE RECORD
YOU HAVE UP TO FIVE MINUTES TO
SPEAK IF YOU'D LIKE TO ADD
ANYTHING TO THE STAFF REPORT.
>> SURE.
MY NAME IS TREVOR GRAHAM EXCUSE
ME I'M THE GENERAL CONTRACTOR
OF MY COMPANY SCRAP CARPENTRY.
I THINK THAT WAS A REALLY GREAT
SUMMARY OF THE PROJECT AND
DON'T HAVE ANY ADDITIONAL
COMMENTS BUT IF THERE ARE
QUESTIONS I'D BE HAPPY TO
ANSWER COMMISSIONERS ANY
QUESTIONS?
WAS IT DIFFICULT TO GET WINDOWS
TO TO GET THE WINDOWS THAT
YOU'RE SO IT WAS INSTALLING ON
THE RECOMMENDATION OF TILL YOU
REACH OUT TO BLACKBERRY
SYSTEMS?
I'VE DONE A LOT OF WORK IN ANN
HARBOR WITH THEY WERE VERY
PROFESSIONAL COMPANY.
THE KNEW EXACTLY WHAT THEY WERE
DOING BEFORE CONTACTING THEM
WAS NOT HAVING MUCH LUCK AT ALL
BUT IT SEEMS LIKE A PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD PROCESS TO THEM
SO AND IT'S LIKE A TOTALLY
CUSTOM BUILD THAT THEY'RE DOING
FOR YOU.
ABSOLUTELY.
THANK YOU.
NO QUESTIONS.
UM, IS SHE GONNA OPEN THE
THANK YOU.
PUBLIC HEARING PORTION FOR THIS
UM, IS SHE GONNA OPEN THE
ITEM?
PUBLIC HEARING PORTION FOR THIS
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
ITEM?
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
THREE MINUTES ON THE HEARING AT
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
SIX THIRTY FOUR PARK COURT
THREE MINUTES ON THE HEARING AT
AGAIN PUBLIC COMMENT MAY BE
SIX THIRTY FOUR PARK COURT
MADE BY CALLING EIGHT SEVEN
AGAIN PUBLIC COMMENT MAY BE
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
MADE BY CALLING EIGHT SEVEN
FOUR SEVEN AND ENTERING MEANING
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
ID NINE SIX FIVE THREE SIX SIX
FOUR SEVEN AND ENTERING MEANING
NINE NINE SEVEN SIX TO PLEASE
ID NINE SIX FIVE THREE SIX SIX
PRESS STAR NINE ON YOUR PHONE
NINE NINE SEVEN SIX TO PLEASE
IF YOU'D LIKE TO COMMENT ON THE
PRESS STAR NINE ON YOUR PHONE
APPLICATION AT SIX THIRTY FOUR
IF YOU'D LIKE TO COMMENT ON THE
TURNER PARK NO CALLERS SORT
APPLICATION AT SIX THIRTY FOUR
OF CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING
TURNER PARK NO CALLERS SORT
YOUR COMMISSIONER WOULD LIKE TO
OF CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING
MAKE A MOTION MR ROCKWELL.
YOUR COMMISSIONER WOULD LIKE TO
MR. WILLIS I MOVE THAT THE
MAKE A MOTION MR ROCKWELL.
COMMISSION ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
MR. WILLIS I MOVE THAT THE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
COMMISSION ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
APPLICATION AT SIX THREE FOUR
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
TURNER PARK COURT A
APPLICATION AT SIX THREE FOUR
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
TURNER PARK COURT A
OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
TO REPLACE TWO STEEL WINDOWS
OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
WITH SIMILAR WINDOWS AND TO
TO REPLACE TWO STEEL WINDOWS
PARTIALLY INFILL TO OTHER
WITH SIMILAR WINDOWS AND TO
WINDOW OPENINGS WITH
PARTIALLY INFILL TO OTHER
STONEMASONRY AND SHORTENED
WINDOW OPENINGS WITH
METAL SASHES AS PROPOSED.
STONEMASONRY AND SHORTENED
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE IN
METAL SASHES AS PROPOSED.
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGE TEXTURE
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE IN
MATERIAL AND RELATIONSHIP TO
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGE TEXTURE
THE REST OF THE BUILDING IN THE
MATERIAL AND RELATIONSHIP TO
SURROUNDING AREA AND MEETS THE
THE REST OF THE BUILDING IN THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
SURROUNDING AREA AND MEETS THE
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
AND GUIDELINES FOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
AND GUIDELINES FOR
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
STANDARDS TO ANINE AND THE
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
GUIDELINES FOR WINDOW AND
STANDARDS TO ANINE AND THE
ARCHITECTURAL METALS AS WELL AS
GUIDELINES FOR WINDOW AND
THE NRA HISTORIC DISTRICT
ARCHITECTURAL METALS AS WELL AS
DESIGN GUIDELINES PARTICULARLY
THE NRA HISTORIC DISTRICT
AS THEY PERTAIN TO WINDOWS IS
DESIGN GUIDELINES PARTICULARLY
THE COMMISSIONER WILL SECONDED
AS THEY PERTAIN TO WINDOWS IS
BY COMMISSIONER WHITE
THE COMMISSIONER WILL SECONDED
DISCRETION ON THE MOTION.
BY COMMISSIONER WHITE
I'LL JUST ADD I THINK THIS IS
DISCRETION ON THE MOTION.
UM AN EXTREMELY INTERESTING
I'LL JUST ADD I THINK THIS IS
PROJECT.
UM AN EXTREMELY INTERESTING
YOU KNOW, IT LOOKS LIKE A FUN
PROJECT.
LITTLE HOUSE AND IT'S A REALLY
YOU KNOW, IT LOOKS LIKE A FUN
UNIQUE CONDITION THAT I
LITTLE HOUSE AND IT'S A REALLY
APPRECIATE APPLICANTS, YOU
UNIQUE CONDITION THAT I
KNOW, SINCE TO DO EVEN
YOU
KNOW, LOOK AT REPLICATING THE
WINDOWS THAT ARE THERE AND
USING A NICE QUALITY PRODUCT
AND BEING CONSIDERED ABOUT HOW
THE REST OF THE INFILL IS
TAKING PLACE.
IT KIND OF GIVE THAT NOT BACK
TO THE REMAINDER OF THE HOUSE
AND WHAT HAS BEEN DONE IN USING
A SIMILAR TREATMENT.
SO I THINK THIS IS PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
I'M READY FOR A VOTE OF THOSE
IN FAVOR SAY YES, YES, YES,
YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
ALL RIGHT, YOU'RE APPLICATION
IS APPROVED.
>> PLEASE NOTE YOU SHOULD ASK
FOR OR SUBMIT FOR PERMITS
BEFORE BEGINNING WORK ON YOUR
PROJECT.
THANK YOU RIGHT.
>> I NEED YOU NOW ONTO ITEM F
TWO AT EIGHT FOURTEEN WEST
LIBERTY SPECIALE PLEASE GIVE
THE STAFF REPORT.
>> LET ME SHARE MY SCREEN WITH
YOU OK A FOURTEEN WEST LIBERTY
IS IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT THIS ONE AND
THREE QUARTER STOREY GABLE
FRONT.
HER FIRST APPEARS IN THE 1894
POLK CITY DIRECTORY.
IT FEATURES WIDE BOARD TRIM
BENEATH THE EAVES A FULL FRONT
PORCH WITH HIPPED ROOF WITH
LEFT SIDING ONE OVER ONE
WINDOWS, A CUT STONE FOUNDATION
AND A SHALLOW FIRST FLOOR BUMP
OUT AT THE BACK OF THE WEST
ELEVATION YOU CAN SEE IN THIS
PHOTO ON JUNE 14 TWENTY TWENTY
APPROVED AN APPLICATION TO
ENCLOSE A REAR PORCH AT THIS
LOCATION PROPERTIES ON THE
NORTH SIDE OF WEST LIBERTY, ONE
HOUSE EAST OF THE INTERSECTION
OF SOUTH SEVENTH STREET AND THE
APPLICANT ARE SEEKING HGC
APPROVAL TO REMOVE THE BRICK
CHIMNEY.
WE CAN SEE THE CHIMNEY HERE ON
THE HOUSE.
IT CENTERED ON THE ROOF RIDGE
ABOUT TWO THIRDS OF THE WAY
FROM THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE
TOWARD THE BACK.
IT'S TYPICAL OF A TYPICAL
CHIMNEY OF HOUSES OF THIS AGE
RED BRICK WITH A STONE CABIN
LINER.
HERE'S ANOTHER ANGLE
THE
APPLICATION IS TO REMOVE THE
CHIMNEY IS IN ORDER TO MAKE
MORE ROOM IN THE KITCHEN TO BE
ABLE TO MOVE THE STOVE OVER AND
PUT IN A NEW CABINET WHERE THE
STOVE PREVIOUSLY WAS.
THE CHIMNEY IS NOT IN USE AND
HAS NOT BEEN IN USE FOR SEVERAL
YEARS TO AVOID ANY STRUCTURAL
INSTABILITY.
THEY WOULD LIKE TO REMOVE THE
FULL CHIMNEY INCLUDING THE
EXTERIOR RATHER THAN MERELY A
PORTION.
THEY'LL BE REPAIRING THE ROOF
AT THE SAME TIME TO MATCH THE
ROOFING MATERIALS.
WE DID LOOK IN THE BASEMENT WE
WERE TRYING TO WE WERE
DISCUSSING THE OH I'M SORRY WE
DIDN'T LOOK WE DIDN'T LOOK AT
YOU.
THAT'S THE NEXT ONE.
SORRY.
GOT TO CHANGE CONFUSED.
>> THIS WAS THE MORE VISIBLE
YEAH.
WE DID GO IN THE BASEMENT SO
ANOTHER CLOSE UP OF THE CHIMNEY
IT'S THIS IS YOUR STANDARD OLD
WEST SIDE CHIMNEY.
THIS HOUSE IS A LITTLE OLDER
THAN ITS NEIGHBORS TO THE EAST
AND ABOUT THE SAME AGE AS ITS
NEIGHBORS TO THE WEST.
THERE'S NOTHING ORNATE ABOUT
IT.
IT'S JUST A STRAIGHTFORWARD RED
BRICK CHIMNEY.
SO THE SECRETARY TO YOUR
STANDARDS I READ NO TO TO YOU
ALREADY NO.
FIVE SAYS DISTINCTIVE MATERIALS
FEATURES FINISHES AND
CONSTRUCTION TECHNIQUES ARE
EXAMPLES OF CRAFTSMANSHIP.
THAT CHARACTER AS A PROPERTY
WILL BE PRESERVED.
SUCCESS DETERIORATED, HISTORIC
FEATURES WILL BE REPAIRED
RATHER THAN REPLACED OR THE
SEVERITY OF DETERIORATION
REQUIRES REPLACEMENT OF A
DISTINCTIVE FEATURE.
THE NEW FEATURE WILL MATCH THE
OLD AND DESIGN COLOR TEXTURE
AND WHERE POSSIBLE MATERIALS
REPLACEMENT OF MISSING FEATURES
WILL BE SUBSTANTIATED BY
DOCUMENTARY AND PHYSICAL
EVIDENCE.
AND I READ NUMBERED NINE TO YOU
SO FROM THE SECRETARY AND TEARS
GUIDELINES FOR ROOFS IT'S
RECOMMENDED TO IDENTIFY, RETAIN
AND PRESERVE ROOFS AND THEY'RE
FUNCTIONAL AND DECORATIVE
FEATURES THAT ARE IMPORTANT IN
FINDING THE OVERALL HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE BUILDING.
THIS INCLUDES THE ROOF SHAPE
SUCH AS KOUFOS CRESTING
CHIMNEYS AND WEATHERVANES AND
ROOFING MATERIALS FROM THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES.
IT'S APPROPRIATE TO RETAIN AND
MAINTAIN ORIGINAL HISTORIC
ROOFING MATERIALS ROOF SHAPED
DOORS, CUPOLAS CHIMNEYS AND
BUILT INTO DECORATIVE GUTTERS
AND DOWNSPOUTS.
IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE TO REMOVE
OR ALTER HISTORIC ROOF FEATURES
SAME LIST AND LET ME SEE IF I
HAD ANY STAFF COMMENTS ON THIS
.
THE CHIMNEY WAS STATED TO BE IN
NEED OF REPAIR WHICH I DON'T
DOUBT FINDING INTERIOR SPACE IS
A CHALLENGE IN MANY OLD HOMES
BUT STAFF DOES CONSIDER THIS TO
BE A CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURE
OF THE HOUSE SINCE THERE'S NO
EVIDENCE THAT IT WAS INSTALLED
AFTER NINETEEN FORTY FOUR.
I KNOW THAT THE AGENCY HAS HAD
SEVERAL CHIMNEY APPLICATIONS
OF LIGHT, MANY OF WHICH HAVE
BEEN APPROVED.
SO I'M HOPING TO GET A GOOD
READ ON THIS FROM YOUR
DISCUSSION FOR THIS APPLICATION
AND THE NEXT ONE SO I CAN
ADVISE PEOPLE INURE ON
THESE AND BE CONSISTENT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MR COMMISSIONERS'
WILL WE GIVE YOUR REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT?
WELL I HAD MY BINOCULARS THERE
AND LOOKED AT THE CHIMNEY AND
IT'S JUST WHAT JILL SAID
WITHOUT BINOCULARS IT'S JUST A
IT'S A NORMAL CHIMNEY.
THEY'RE IT'S IT'S IN SLIGHT
DISREPAIR
.
THERE WERE OTHER CHIMNEYS ON
THE BLOCK.
SOME LOOKED LIKE THIS ONE
LOOKED DIFFERENT.
YEAH, I HAVE NOTHING MORE TO
ADD THAN THAT COMMISSIONER FOR
IT.
YEAH I MEAN I WOULD JUST READ
THAT THE OTHER HOUSES ON THE
BLOCK LIKE THIS ONE OF THE SAME
AGE AND STYLE HAVE THAT SAME
CHIMNEY IN THE SAME PLACE SOME
IN BETTER YOU KNOW CLEARLY HAVE
BEEN REPAIRED AND SOME IN NEED
BUT THAT IS A CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURE OF THOSE TYPES
OF HOUSES OF THAT TIME THERE.
THANK YOU FOR IS APPLICANT
PRESENT.
YES.
PLEASE STEP FORWARD AND SAY
YOUR NAME AND IF YOU HAVE
ANYTHING YOU'D LIKE TO ADD TO
THE STAFF REPORT.
>> GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS NICOLE SANBERG.
MYSELF AND MY HUSBAND NORMAN
ARE THE PROPERTY OWNERS AT
EIGHT ONE FOUR WEST LIBERTY.
WE PURCHASED THE HOUSE IN
TWENTY SEVENTEEN.
WE HAVE BEEN LIVING THERE.
WE HAVE TWO TWO SMALL KIDS WE
LOVE LIVING IN THE OLD WEST
SIDE.
WE LOVE BEING PART OF THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
WE TAKE IT VERY SERIOUSLY.
I'M AN URBAN PLANNER BY
TRAINING MY HUSBAND'S A
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT AND
CARPENTERS.
WE'RE VERY KEEN ON HISTORIC
THINGS.
WE'VE BEEN VERY THOUGHTFUL
ABOUT THE UPDATES AND
RENOVATIONS AND CHANGES THAT
WE'VE MADE TO THE EXTERIOR
INTERIOR OF OUR HOUSE.
AS I STATED IN OUR APPLICATION
WE CONSIDERED WELL WE ARE
INTERESTED IN REMOVING IT TO
MAKE SOME MORE SPACE
PARTICULARLY IN THE KITCHEN.
IT'S AN OLD HOUSE.
IT'S VERY SMALL.
WE WANT TO STAY IN IT.
WE WANT TO MAKE IT WORKABLE FOR
US AND EVEN A FEW SMALL SQUARE
FEET WHERE THE CHIMNEY IS CAN
MAKE A BIG DIFFERENCE IN TERMS
OF THE KITCHEN.
IT'S GOING TO ADD A LITTLE BIT
OF EXTRA SQUARE FOOTAGE IN THE
UPSTAIRS BEDROOM AS WELL IF WE
REMOVED IT.
BUT IT'S MORE ABOUT THE THE
FLOW WITH THE KITCHEN WE WERE
ORIGINALLY THINKING ABOUT JUST
TAKING THE INTERIOR PART OF THE
THE CHIMNEY OUT AND LEAVING
ABOVE THE ROOF TO TO MAINTAIN
THAT LOOK.
BUT I'M DOING SOME RESEARCH AND
READING ABOUT THE STRUCTURE
OF CHIMNEYS AND HOW THEY'RE
BUILT.
IT WAS REALLY NOT ADVISABLE TO
JUST LEAVE THE TOP PORTION
BECAUSE ONCE YOU TAKE OUT THE
BOTTOM IT BECOMES UNSTABLE.
THERE'S MORE RISK OF PROBLEMS
HAPPENING AND SO WHAT FROM WHAT
WE UNDERSTAND AND WHAT WE READ
IT WAS REALLY ADVISABLE IF
YOU'RE GOING TO TAKE OUT A PART
OF IT TO JUST TAKE OUT THE
WHOLE THING.
SO THAT'S WHY WE'RE HERE AND
HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS BUT I HOPE THAT YOU
RULE THAT IT'S APPROPRIATE TO
REMOVE IT.
THANK YOU, MR HUGHES.
ANY QUESTIONS?
>> OK, THANK YOU.
THANKS ON OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS ITEM 814 WEST
LIBERTY.
IF WE HAVE ANY CALLERS THAT
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE COMMENT ON
THIS APPLICATION, PLEASE
STERNIN ON YOUR PHONE.
>> ANYBODY INDICATED NO NO.
>> OK, OF COURSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING PORTION IS YOUR
COMMISSIONER.
I'D LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION FOR
YOU TO ASK.
OH YEAH.
SORRY.
SO EUSTACE'S ANYONE IN THE
AUDIENCE THAT WOULD LIKE TO
MAKE SOME PUBLIC COMMENTS?
ALL RIGHT.
SEE NO CALLERS OR PEOPLE
PRESENT.
I WOULD LIKE TO MAKE COMMENT I
WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING.
IS THERE A COMMISSIONER THAT
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION.
I COMMISSIONER RECOMMEND THANK
YOU.
>> I MOVE IT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION EIGHT ONE FOR WEST
LIBERTY A CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY
IN THE OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO REMOVE THE BRICK
CHIMNEY AS PROPOSED.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE AND
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
MATERIALS AND RELATIONSHIP TO
THE HOUSE AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR ROOFS AND THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATING
HISTORIC BUILDINGS IN
PARTICULAR STANDARDS TO FIVE,
SIX AND NINE.
THE GUIDELINES AND THE
GUIDELINES FOR ROOFS MOVED
BACK.
MR RACHLIN SECONDED
COMMISSIONER WHITE DISCUSSION
ON THE MOTION.
>> YOU HAVE SOMETHING YOU WANT
TO START WITH?
>> I'M NOT SURE BUT OK.
>> YEAH I DON'T REALLY KNOW
WHERE TO GO WITH THIS BUT I
FEEL LIKE WE'VE WE'VE APPROVED
REMOVING CHIMNEYS AND I KNOW
WE'VE GOT TO GO ON A CASE BY
CASE BASIS SO TYPICALLY
I THINK
THAT IF IF THE CHIMNEY IS NOT
SHOWING A SIGN OF LIKE CRAFT
OF BUILDING A CHIMNEY THAT SORT
OF MAKES IT A SECONDARY CHIMNEY
IN A WAY IT'S STILL A CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURE BUT IT JUST
SEEMS LIKE THERE'S LEVELS
OF CHIMNEYS WHERE THERE'S LIKE
THIS WHICH TO ME IS LIKE
BASICALLY A WAY TO COVER A FLUE
LIKE YOU THERE WAS A BOILER.
THEY NEED THE GRAVITY FED FLUE
AND THE CHIMNEY WAS THERE OR
WAS IT COOKING FOR COOKING OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT?
IT'S NOT FOR A FIREPLACE AND IT
JUST SEEMS LIKE THERE'S LEVELS
OF CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURE
JUST LIKE THERE WOULD BE WITH
ANYTHING ELSE AND THIS IS AT
THE LOWER END.
AND TO ME IF A HOMEOWNER IS
WANTING TO IMPROVE THEIR HOME
AND NEEDS TO DO IT BY REMOVING
ONE OF THESE SECOND TIER I
DON'T KNOW WHAT TO CALL IT BUT
JUST A CHIMNEY THAT'S NOT
SHOWING ANY CRAFTSMANSHIP
BASICALLY BESIDES JUST TYPICAL
MASONRY I FEEL LIKE IT'S IN THE
SIMILAR VEIN OF SOMEONE PUTTING
ON A REAR EDITION AND WE ALLOW
THEM TO REMOVE A CONTRIBUTING
WINDOW OR A DOOR FROM MAFIOSA
IF THEY'RE IMPROVING THE HOUSE
IN A CERTAIN WAY WHERE THAT'S A
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURE BUT
IT GETS REMOVED SO THAT IS I'M
NOT MENTIONING THE STANDARDS
BECAUSE THE STANDARDS ARE VERY
CLEAR THAT YOU'RE NOT SUPPOSED
TO REMOVE THE CHIMNEY.
SO I'M JUST SAYING THAT THERE
SEEMS TO BE A GRAY AREA TO THE
STANDARDS BECAUSE WE SAY YOU
CAN REMOVE A WINDOW EVEN THOUGH
THE STANDARDS SAY YOU CAN'T
REMOVE THE WINDOW.
THIS IS A LITTLE DIFFERENT
BECAUSE FROM THE RIGHT AWAY YOU
CAN SEE ITS CHIMNEY.
IT'S NOT IT'S NOT LIKE ON THE
FRONT FACADE OR YOU KNOW BUT IF
YOU LOOK FOR IT THERE BUT IT IS
IT'S IT'S A WAYS BACK.
SO YEAH, FOR ALL THOSE REASONS
I FEEL LIKE I'M LEANING MORE
TOWARDS SUPPORT BUT I WOULD
LIKE TO HEAR WHAT OTHER PEOPLE
HAVE TO SAY ABOUT IT.
I HOPE FOR THE PROJECT OK.
YEAH I THINK IN SOME OF THE
OTHER ONES THEY WERE LESS
VISIBLE FROM THE RIGHT OF WAY
THIS WAY THE HOUSE IS ANGLED
WHAT YOU CAN DEFINITELY SEE AT
FAR BACK ON THE ROOF.
YEAH BUT THERE IS NOTHING IT'S
THE PLAINEST MASONRY CHIMNEY
YOU CAN HAVE AND I THINK THAT'S
WHAT THE GUIDELINES ARE CLEAR
IN STATING THAT YOU KNOW,
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES ARE
IMPORTANT AND I THINK THAT'S A
DISTINCTION.
IT'S CHARACTER DEFINING BECAUSE
OF ITS SHAPE AND ITS LOCATION
ON THE ROOF I THINK.
BUT TO THE POINT AND THAT'S
REALLY ITS ITS CHARACTER
DEFINING OF THE STYLE OF HOUSE.
BUT IS IT REALLY IS THAT IS IT
A YOU KNOW, DOES IT DOESN'T
HAVE A LOT OF IT IS UTILITARIAN
,DOESN'T HAVE THE FEATURES.
DOES REMOVING IT CHANGE THE
CHARACTER RIGHT.
PROBABLY NOT.
NO THERE IS SOMETHING THAT IS
MORE APPARENT THAN THE NEXT
CHIMNEY WE'RE TO TALK ABOUT IN
TERMS OF THIS SORT OF CONTEXT
IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD THAT YOU
KNOW, IT'S CLEAR THAT ALL THE
HOUSES LIKE THAT HAVE THOSE
KINDS OF CHIMNEYS SO WHILE IT
DOESN'T CHANGE THE YOU KNOW,
THE CHARACTER OF THAT HOUSE, IS
IT CHANGING SORT OF THE
CHARACTER OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD
BY SORT OF REMOVING THESE
CHIMNEYS ONE AT A TIME?
YEAH, THAT'S THAT'S SORT OF THE
ONLY CONCERN I HAVE THE BROADER
NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> WELL, I THINK THAT THAT WAS
MY OTHER THOUGHT ON THIS ONE
PARTICULAR BECAUSE YOU STATED
THAT THE OTHER HOUSES HAVE THAT
CHIMNEY SO THERE'S LIKE IT'S A
SET RIGHT OR A PEAR THAT YOU
KNOW, NOT REALLY HAVE NOT IN
THIS HOUSE.
OK, THERE'S MORE YOU KNOW
THERE'S A LOT MORE VARIETY
PUBERTY ON THE HOUSE TYPE.
>> YEAH, THERE'S A HOUSE ON THE
CORNER THAT IS NEXT TO THAT HAS
A MUCH MORE ELABORATE CHIMNEY
THAT REALLY STANDS OUT AS BEING
THAT'S A SPECIAL CHIMNEY.
YEAH.
OK, READY TO VOTE ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY
YES.
YES ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE
SAY NO MOTION CARRIES.
THANK YOU AND I THINK I LOVELY
ITEM F THREE THREE FIFTEEN
MILHOLLAND STATEWAY PLEASE GIVE
THE STATUTORY AUTHORITY
CERTAINLY
LET ME STOP THIS FOR
ONE MINUTE AND PROMOTE TIM
RAEBURN INTO THE MEETING.
TIM TIM IS KEVIN MASSEE WITH
YOU I'M SORRY WITH KEVIN MASSEE
WITH YOU.
NO OK THANK YOU.
JUST CHECKING ALL RIGHT THREE
FIFTEEN MULHOLLAND IS IN THE
OLD ASIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
IT'S A ONE AND THREE QUARTER
STOREY GABLE FRONTIER.
THE FIRST APPEARS IN THE
NINETEEN SIXTEEN PULL THE CITY
DIRECTORY AS THREE FIFTEEN
SIXTH STREET THE HOME OF DJ
ROYAL AND MAASDAM SAGE ROYAL
WAS A CARRIER FOR THE POST
OFFICE.
SIXTH STREET WAS LATER RENAMED
MULHOLLAND.
THE HOUSE FEATURES A FORWARD
FRONT PORCH WIDE BOARDROOM
THIEVES AND A SMALL WOOD SIDED
GRUDGE THAT WAS ADDED BETWEEN
1916 AND 1920 FIVE HOUSES ON
THE EAST SIDE OF MULHOLLAND AND
THE APPLICANT IS SEEKING
APPROVAL TO REPLACE FOUR MODERN
WINDOWS WITH CLAD WINDOWS,
REPLACE A SLIDING GLASS DOOR
WITH A PAIR OF FRENCH DOORS,
REPLACE A MODERN ENTRY DOOR
WITH A FULL WHITE DOOR.
IT'S ON THE BACK OF THE HOUSE
REMOVE A MASONRY CHIMNEY AND
INSTALL A NEW CHIMNEY USING
BRICK VENEER AND INSTALL FOUR
SKYLIGHTS.
WHEN WE WERE OUT FOR THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE WE DIDN'T LOOK WE
DIDN'T TALK MUCH ABOUT AT ALL
ABOUT THE SKYLIGHT BUT
NEVERTHELESS WE ALL LOOKED AT
THE ROOF A LOT BECAUSE OF THE
CHIMNEY.
I THINK THAT'S ALL GOOD.
LET'S SEE.
HERE'S THE HOUSE.
THE BACK OF THE HOUSE IS WHERE
A LOT OF THE WORK IS GOING TO
BE THIS PERSON DOOR, THIS
MODERN DOOR WOULD BE REPLACED.
I'LL SHOW YOU THE NEW DOOR IN A
SACK.
THIS SLIDING OR WOULD BE
REPLACED IN THE SAME OPENING
WITH A PAIR OF FRENCH DOORS.
THIS IS A NON ORIGINAL WINDOW.
THERE ARE THREE OF THESE ONE
OVER ONE WINDOWS ALL ON THE
SECOND FLOOR.
THEY ARE PELLOW REPLACEMENT
WINDOWS.
THEY ARE ALL WOOD AND THE THE
REQUEST TO REPLACE THEM IS WITH
AN ANDERSON FOUR HUNDRED SERIES
WHICH IS A CLAD WOOD WINDOW.
NOT ALL WOOD.
THIS IS THE SECOND WINDOW THAT
IS PROPOSED TO BE REPLACED.
>> THEY'RE ALL ROUGHLY THE SAME
AND THIS IS THE THIRD ONE
FACING THE STREET YOU CAN SEE
THAT THE PROPORTIONS ARE VERY
MODERN.
THEY'RE VERY SKINNY.
I DON'T THINK THAT THESE
WINDOWS WERE BASED ON ANY
HISTORIC PRECEDENT JUST BECAUSE
OF THE WIDTH OF THE RAILS.
THE STYLES'S IT IT DOESN'T WHEN
WE LOOKED AT IT FROM THE GROUND
I WAS SURPRISED TO FIND THAT IT
WAS EVEN A WOOD WINDOW.
I DIDN'T THINK IT WAS WOOD
WINDOW AND DIDN'T KNOW THAT
UNTIL WE GOT UP CLOSE TO OUR OK
THIS ANOTHER WINDOW PROPOSAL
THAT I DON'T THINK I INCLUDED
IN MY LIST THERE WAS TO REPLACE
THIS GARDEN WINDOW WITH A
SHALLOWER ONE THAT STICKS OUT I
DON'T KNOW SIX OR EIGHT INCHES
INSTEAD 14 OR 18 INCHES FOR
SKYLIGHTS I PROPOSED TO ON EACH
SIDE TO ANY TRUE FACE AND THIS
IS THE RED BRICK CHIMNEY THAT
WOULD BE REMOVED SIMILAR TO THE
LAST APPLICATION TO MAKE ROOM
ON THE SECOND FLOOR IN A
BEDROOM AND ON THE FIRST FLOOR
IN THE KITCHEN TO GIVE THEM
MORE SPACE TO WORK WITH.
AND WE HAVE SOME DRAWINGS HERE
SEE THE EXISTING CHIMNEY IN THE
BASEMENT?
THIS IS THE ONE THAT WE SAW IT.
IT'S IT'S RED AND BRICK.
IT'S AS EXPECTED NOTHING
EXCITING ABOUT IT.
THE CONTRACTOR FLAGGED ME DOWN
AFTER THE SERVICE AND EXPLAINED
THAT THIS IS ALSO A RED BRICK
IN THE CHIMNEY.
THE BRICK THE REASON I BRING
THAT UP IS BECAUSE THE THE
CHIMNEY ITSELF IS IS WIR RACHED
IT HAS LITTLE LINES LIKE
SOMEONE PRESSED A WIRE FRAME
INTO IT TO MAKE THOSE LINES.
IT'S A LITTLE MORE IT'S A
LITTLE FANCIER THAN THAN MANY
OF THESE CHIMNEYS THAT WE SEE
IN WALKING AROUND THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE DID NOTICE THAT PRETTY MUCH
EVERY CHIMNEY ON MULHOLLAND IS
VERY SIMILAR BUT USES DIFFERENT
BRICKS.
SO THERE WAS SOME QUESTION
ABOUT THE AGE OF THE CHIMNEY
THAT'S UP THERE SO THESE ARE
THE FLOOR PLANS.
THIS IS THIS IS, YOU KNOW,
CHIMNEY RIGHT IN THE MIDDLE
OF THE FIRST FLOOR HERE WE HAVE
SOME DRAWINGS.
HALF-LIGHT DOOR WOULD REPLACE
THE PERSON DOOR ON THE SIDE
HERE.
SLIDER'S ACTUALLY THIS IS THE
BEFORE SO THIS ISN'T QUITE
RIGHT BECAUSE IT'S A FULL LIGHT
DOOR NOW SLIDER'S GO TO FRENCH
DOORS, THIS WINDOW GETS
REPLACED AND WE'VE GOT TWO
SKYLIGHTS UP HERE AND A CHIMNEY
.
SO THIS IS PRETTY SHALLOW THIS
DRAWING OF THE NEW GARDEN
WINDOW AND THE ELEVATION
DRAWING IT SAYS PROPOSED ROOF
OVER BUMP OUT WINDOW WHICH I'D
LIKE TIM TO TALK ABOUT A LITTLE
BIT MORE WHEN IT'S HIS TURN
THAT'S NOT SHOWN THIS OTHER
ELEVATION DRAWING AND I WAS
UNDER THE IMPRESSION THAT IT
WAS JUST GOING TO BE LIKE THE
OLD ONE JUST A LITTLE SLANTED
TOP OF HERE.
YEAH.
SO WE CAN HEAR MORE ABOUT WHAT
THAT MEANS.
I'M NOT CRAZY ABOUT THE IDEA
OF ADDING SOMETHING THOUGH
WHEN
WE'RE TRYING TO TAKE IT AWAY
.
THESE ARE EXISTING SMALL
CASEMENT WINDOWS THAT ARE
ORIGINAL AND ARE NOT PART
OF THE APPLICATION FOR REMOVAL.
THERE ARE NO PLANS THAT WAY.
HERE IS THE CHIMNEY.
>> YOU CAN SEE THE THE TEXTURED
BRICK THE PROPOSAL IS TO
INSTALL A FAKE FAUX CHIMNEY IN
ITS PLACE WHICH I'M FOR MANY
DIFFERENT REASONS DOES NOT MEET
THE STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES.
YOU DON'T REMOVE A HISTORIC
FEATURE AND PUT A FULL HISTORIC
FEATURE IN ITS PLACE.
SO REALLY I THINK THAT MORE IN
QUESTION IS THE AGE OF THIS
CHIMNEY BECAUSE IT IS AND IT
ISN'T VERY GOOD SHAPE UP HERE
AND WHETHER IT'S BEEN REPLACED
ABOVE THE ROOF SURFACE OR NOT,
WE DON'T KNOW THAT WE MIGHT
NEVER KNOW THAT BUT IT'S WORTH
DISCUSSING AND AND IF IT'S NOT
HISTORIC IT COULD BE REMOVED OR
IF IT'S NOT A CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURE.
SO I'VE GONE THROUGH THESE
BEFORE ONE TO ACTUALLY HAVE
GONE THROUGH ALL OF THEM.
NUMBER THREE SAYS EACH PROPERTY
WILL BE RECOGNIZED AS A
PHYSICAL RECORD OF ITS TIME,
PLACE AND USE CHANGES THAT
CREATE A FALSE SENSE
OF HISTORICAL DEVELOPMENT SUCH
AS ADDING CONJECTURAL FEATURES
OR ELEMENTS FROM OTHER HISTORIC
PROPERTIES WILL NOT BE
UNDERTAKEN.
SO IN OTHER WORDS, DON'T PUT UP
A FOKINE NUMBER FIVE SAYS
DISTINCTIVE MATERIALS FEATURES
AND CONSTRUCTION TECHNIQUES ARE
EXAMPLES OF CRAFTSMANSHIP THAT
CHARACTERIZE A PROPERTY WILL BE
PRESERVED AND DETERIORATED.
HISTORIC FEATURES WILL BE
REPAIRED RATHER THAN REPLACED.
I READ THIS ONE TO YOU ALREADY
FROM THE GUIDELINES FOR USE
IT'S RECOMMENDED TO IDENTIFY,
RETAIN AND PRESERVE ROOFS AND
THEIR DECORATIVE FEATURES
INCLUDING ROOF SHAPE, CRESTING
CHIMNEYS, WEATHERVANES AND
ROOFING MATERIALS.
IT'S RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN AND
CONSTRUCT A NEW FEATURE WHEN
THE HISTORIC FEATURE IS
COMPLETELY MISSING WHICH TO ME
IMPLIES REMOVING A HISTORIC
FEATURE AND DESIGNING AND
CONSTRUCTING A NEW FEATURES
WOULD NOT BE RECOMMENDED.
I'VE ALREADY READ YOU THESE
FOUR FOUR ROOFS FROM ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES RETAIN AND MAINTAIN
THE CHIMNEY AND REPAIR OR
RECONSTRUCT CHIMNEYS WITH
MORTAR.
OH THIS IS NOT APPROPRIATE
REPAIRING OR RECONSTRUCTING
CHIMNEYS THE MORTAR THAT DOES
NOT EXACTLY MATCH THE ORIGINAL
AND COMPOSITION COLOR HARDNESS
ENJOY PROFILES YOU KNOW THE
GUIDELINES ARE SPECIFIC RIGHT
DOWN TO THE MORTAR.
IT'S GOOD.
ALL RIGHT, LET ME GET BACK UP
HERE TO OUR DRAWINGS.
LET'S SEE.
SO MOST OF THIS WORK IS THAT
MOST OF THE THINGS BEING
REPLACED ARE MODERN.
THE FOUR SKYLIGHTS ARE PROPOSED
TO ANY TRUE SURFACE.
THE WORK IS REVERSIBLE AND
INCONSPICUOUS.
I KNOW IN THE PAST WE'VE
SOMETIMES OVER ONE SKYLIGHT
WITH TWO SKYLIGHTS.
THIS IS THE MOST ANYONE HAS
EVER ASKED FOR BUT REALLY I
DON'T KNOW THAT IT'S ANY MORE
CONSPICUOUS TO HAVE FOUR UP
THERE THAN THAN ONE OR TWO.
NOT THAT I'M ENCOURAGING PEOPLE
PUT IN FOR BUT ON THIS OCCASION
I THINK IT MAY BE APPROPRIATE
.
ALL RIGHT.
STAFF'S OPINION ONCE AGAIN IS
THAT THE CHIMNEY IS A CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURE THE HOUSE AND
SINCE THERE'S NO EVIDENCE THAT
IT WAS WHETHER IT WAS IN PRISON
DURING THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE IS A HISTORIC
FEATURE AND REPLACING IT WITH A
CHIMNEY WOULD BE INAPPROPRIATE
.
THE REMAINDER OF THE WORK IS
APPROPRIATE IF THREE WINDOWS TO
BE REPLACED ARE CLAD IS WHAT I
HAD IN MY LAST LINE OF MY LAST
COMMENT THERE I I'M I'M STILL
KIND OF OK WITH CLOUD WINDOWS
SINCE THESE ARE KIND OF WONKY
WOULD WINDOWS TO START WITH IF
THEY HAD ANY HISTORIC
PROPORTIONS AND MIGHT HAVE BEEN
BASED ON ANYTHING PRIOR TO
THEM?
I THINK I WOULD FEEL
DIFFERENTLY ABOUT IT BUT THERE
ALREADY STRANGE PROPORTIONS.
SO I THINK THAT THE ANDERSSEN
400 SERIES WOULD WORK HERE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU INSPECTOR.
THE COMMISSION RECOMMENDED FOR
FORTNER.
>> PLEASE GIVE US YOUR REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT.
I AGREE WITH THE STAFF REPORT
THE ALTHOUGH THIS I HAVE TO SAY
FROM THIS THIS LOOKS LIKE A
WHOLE DIFFERENT PROPOSAL FOR
THAT GARDEN WINDOW.
YEAH.
BECAUSE THIS IS ABOUT YOU KNOW,
DOUBLE HOME WITH A ROOF OVER IT
AND I AGREE THAT THE SKYLIGHTS
ARE APPROPRIATE.
THIS IS WHERE IF IF YOU LOOK
DOWN MULHOLLAND THERE'S A
RHYTHM TO THE ROOF THAT
INCLUDES THOSE CHIMNEYS.
>> THE HOUSING TYPES ARE MUCH
YOU KNOW, ALMOST I DON'T KNOW
IF THERE WAS ANY VARIATION ON
THAT GABLE FRONT HOUSE AND SO
IT SEEMS LIKE A MUCH WELL AGAIN
VERY UTILITARIAN, MAYBE NOT
EVEN ORIGINAL WE DON'T KNOW
BECAUSE THOSE BRICKS ARE SO
DIFFERENT THAN ANYTHING ELSE.
AND THEN WHAT'S INTERIOR BUT
THAT WELL IT WON'T AFFECT THE
YOU KNOW, CHANGE THE HISTORY OR
THE CHARACTER OF THE INDIVIDUAL
HOUSE.
IT'S SORT OF DISRUPTING THAT
RHYTHM THAT DEFINES THE
NEIGHBORHOOD
.
>> OK, I AGREE WITH ALL
OF THAT.
I THINK THAT THIS CHIMNEY, THE
CHIMNEYS THEY DO APPEAR LIKE
MAYBE THEY'RE MORE HALFWAY BACK
INSTEAD OF TWO THIRDS BACK AND
THAT WAS THE OTHER ONE I THINK
THAT WAS TWO THIRDS BACK.
YEAH.
THE OTHER ONE WAS MORE LIKE TWO
JUST TO COMPARE AND CONTRAST.
OK, AND THEN THIS IS THESE
CHIMNEYS SEEM TO BE MORE LIKE
HALFWAY BACK.
>> THEY'RE STILL BACK.
THEY'RE NOT RIGHT IN FRONT.
THEY'RE NOT THERE AT THE TOP
OF THE RIDGE.
THEY'RE NOT ON AN ELEVATION.
THIS BRICK TO ME LOOKED LIKE
REPLACEMENT BRICK OBVIOUSLY I
HAVE NO IDEA IF IT IS OR NOT
BUT IT JUST LOOKED LIKE YOU YOU
WOULDN'T EXPECT TO SEE THIS
BRICK ON A CHIMNEY IN ANN ARBOR
BUT I CAN'T SAY I HAVE
INSPECTED EVERY CHIMNEY IN ANN
ARBOR AND MAYBE IT IS LIKE OH
YES, SOME OF THOSE ARE LIKE
THIS RACHED FORM AND SOME
AREN'T.
I JUST HAVEN'T SEEN OR I
HAVEN'T NOTICED IT.
I SHOULD SAY THE CAP IS NOT A
STONE CAP.
IT'S A BRICK CAP WITH WITH LIKE
MORTAR GROUT.
IT'S KIND OF A GROUTED WITH A
WITH A BRICK CAP WHICH ALSO
JUST SEEM KNOW NOT THAT UNUSUAL
BUT NOT AS NICE AS MAYBE A
STONE CAP WOULD HAVE BEEN SO
THAT'S YEAH.
SO SO I THINK THAT THIS ONE IS
MAYBE A LITTLE TRICKIER THAN
THE LAST ONE BECAUSE OF THE
FACT IT LIKE IT.
YEAH THERE IS LIKE THIS RHYTHM
TO THE HOMES IF IF YOU DO SPEND
THE TIME LOOKING THEY ALL
EXCEPT FOR ONE HAD A CHIMNEY IT
SEEMED LIKE AND ALL THE HOMES
ARE VERY THE SAME LIKE LIKE THE
SAME BUT THEN JUST TO REPEAT
MYSELF THE BRICK DID SEEM LIKE
A REPLACEMENT BRICK AND SO IS
THIS REALLY HISTORIC MATERIAL
OR NOT.
IN FACT MANY OF THE HOMES LOOK
LIKE THE BRICK CHIMNEYS HAVE
BEEN REPLACED BECAUSE IT'S A
PLACE WHERE IT'S GOING TO
DETERIORATE.
>> SO THAT'S IT.
THE APPLICANT IS ONLINE,
CORRECT?
YEAH.
WHAT DAYBOOK DO YOU HAVE
ANYTHING TO ADD TO IT AND A
COMMONLY THE LITTLE KITCHEN
WINDOW WHERE WE'RE GOING TO
TAKE OFF THAT THE EXISTING
GARDEN WINDOW IN THE IDEA IS
EXACT SAME SIZE WINDOW THAT'S
THERE THAT WAS NEVER ALTERED TO
BEGIN WITH.
BUT JUST TO ADD A LITTLE
RUFFLES WE CAN BUMP IT OUT A
LITTLE BIT, GIVE IT A LITTLE
BIT OF A SHELL FROM THE
INTERIOR.
>> THAT WAS THE IDEA.
OK, SO THE ROOF IS BEING
PROPOSED AS IN THE HAND DRAWN
ELEVATION.
>> YEAH, OK.
YEAH THAT KIND OF AN IDEA.
YEAH.
SO IS IT STILL GOING TO BE I'M
SORRY GO AHEAD.
YOU KNOW IS IS STILL GOING TO
BE ONE OF THOSE GARDEN WINDOWS
THAT EXTENDS FROM THE WALL BUT
NOT AS MUCH AS IT WILL EXTEND
FROM THE WALL.
RIGHT LIKE ABOUT SIX INCHES IN
THE HOLE WOULD BE ONE WINDOW
FACING SOUTH.
THERE'D BE NO SIDE WINDOWS OR
TOP WINDOW.
>> IT'S JUST WE'RE JUST GOING
TO POP OUT THE KITCHEN WINDOW
BUT OK, JUST TO CLARIFY, ARE
YOU PROPOSING THAT IT'S NOT
LIKE A BOX GARDEN WINDOW ITSELF
BUT YOU'RE ACTUALLY GOING TO
BUILD OUT USING OTHER
CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL AND THEN
INFILL THAT BOX OUT WITH A
WINDOW?
RIGHT.
OK, OK, SO IT'S ALMOST LIKE A
MINI BAY WINDOW IN THE CENTER
BOW AND OH YEAH THERE YOU GO.
>> YES OK AND WHAT'S THE TOTAL
DEPTH FROM THE WALL SURFACE
WE'RE LOOK LIKE SIX INCHES OK
AND IS THE LITTLE ROOF DOES
THAT OVERHANG THE THE SIX INCH
DEEP BOX WE'RE GOING TO DO IT
MAYBE AN INCH OR TWO JUST JUST
ENOUGH TO GET IT A LITTLE BIT
OF A REVEAL.
OK, SO IT'S NOT A LARGER ROOF
STRUCTURE OVER THE BOX.
>> IT'S JUST A LITTLE ON THE
TOP OF THE BOX WITH A LITTLE
BIT OF AN OVERHANG.
>> RIGHT.
OK, YEAH IT WILL BE BETTER THAN
THE GARDEN WINDOW AND WHAT
MATERIAL IS NOT WINDOW PART
GOING TO BE IF WE MATCH THE
SIDING WHICH APPEARS TO BE A
SMOOTH PINE IT'S ON THE
BUILDING NOW PAINTED TO MATCH
THE TERM OH.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS
COMMISSIONERS FOR THE APPLICANT
COMMISSIONER RECOMMENDED FOR
THE OK NO OK NO UM I'LL OPEN A
PUBLIC HEARING PORTION FOR THIS
ITEM SO IF ANYONE IS IN THE
ROOM PLEASE STEP FORWARD IF
YOU'D LIKE TO MAKE PUBLIC
COMMENT OR IF ANYONE ONLINE OR
ON THE PHONE PLEASE CALL 877
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN TO COMMENT ON THE
APPLICATION AT THREE FIFTEEN
MULHOLLAND DRIVE MULHOLLAND
PLEASE PRESS START ON YOUR
PHONE IF YOU'D LIKE TO MAKE ANY
COMMENT.
WE HAVE NO CALLERS AND NO ONE
RAISING THEIR HAND.
OK, THANK YOU.
>> THERE I'LL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING PORTION IS YOUR
COMMISSIONER THAT I'D LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION MR. WILLIS.
THANK YOU.
QUESTION WHOEVER MAKES THE MOST
DO YOU WANT TO ADD THE GARDEN
WINDOW BECAUSE THAT'S NOT I
THINK IN THE CURRENT YES.
I SEE.
SO AFTER INSTALL FOUR SKYLIGHTS
WE COULD ADD A REPLACEMENT
GARDEN WINDOW AS WE CLOSE AS WE
PLEASE WINDOW A REPLACEMENT
GARDEN WINDOW IS PROPOSED AND A
REPLACEMENT GARDEN WINDOW.
YES.
THANK YOU.
YOU CATCH IT COMMISSIONER.
GO NOW I MOVE THAT THE
COMMISSION ISSUE THE
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION AT THREE
ONE FIVE MULHOLLAND AVENUE A
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
TO REPLACE FOUR MODERN WINDOWS
WITH CLAD WINDOWS REPLACE THE
SLIDING GLASS DOOR WITH A PAIR
OF FRENCH DOORS.
REPLACE A MODERN ENTRY DOOR
WITH THE FOUR LIGHT DOOR,
REMOVE A MASONRY CHIMNEY AND
INSTALL A NEW CHIMNEY USING
BRICK VENEER, INSTALL FOUR
SKYLIGHTS AND REPLACE THAT
GARDEN WINDOW.
YES, AS PROPOSED THE WORK IS
COMPATIBLE AN EXTERIOR DESIGN
ARRANGEMENT MATERIAL AND
RELATIONSHIP TO THE GARAGE AND
THE SURROUNDING AREA AND MEETS
THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATE AND
GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATING
HISTORIC BUILDINGS IN
PARTICULAR STANDARDS ONE TWO
THREE, FIVE, SIX AND NINE AND
THE GUIDELINES FOR ROOFS AND
WINDOWS AND THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES IN PARTICULAR THE
GUIDELINES FOR ROOFS AND
WINDOWS THIRTEEN BY
COMMISSIONER SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WHITE DISCUSSION
ON THE MOTION
.
GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER.
OK, I WAS JUST GOING TO TAKE
THE LOW HANGING FRUIT AND SAY
THAT I DON'T SUPPORT REBUILDING
THE CHIMNEY IF WE AGREED TO
REMOVE THE CHIMNEY WHICH IS IN
THE MOTION SO IT'S A VALID
DISCUSSION SO YOU'RE SAYING YOU
DON'T SUPPORT REMOVAL?
>> WELL, WE DON'T KNOW IF WE
APPROVE THE MOTION.
OK, IF WE IF THE MOTION AS
WRITTEN SAYS REMOVE IT AND AND
THEN INSTALL A NEW CHIMNEY SO I
DON'T SUPPORT THAT PART OF THE
MOTION INSTALL I DON'T KNOW HOW
YOU WANT TO GO THROUGH THE
DISCUSSION BUT I JUST WANT TO
THROW THAT OUT THERE.
WELL, WE CAN TALK ABOUT THE
CHIMNEY THAT YOU BROUGHT THAT
UM I THINK IN THIS THIS
PARTICULAR ONE UM WHAT DO YOU
HAVE THE REVIEW COMMITTEE
STATED ABOUT THE CHIMNEY BEING
MORE OF AN IMPORTANT FEATURE
CHARACTER FEATURE FOR THE NOT
JUST THE THE HOUSE BUT FOR THE
THE THE SITE AND SURROUNDING
NEIGHBORHOOD.
I WOULD BE LESS INCLINED TO
SUPPORT REMOVAL OF THIS CHIMNEY
PERIOD AND YOU KNOW, REMOVAL UP
TO A CERTAIN HEIGHT I CAN GET
YOU KNOW, THERE'S STRUCTURALIST
ABILITY TO SUPPORT THAT CARPET
IN THE ATTIC OR FROM THE ATTIC
SPACE DOWN.
SO THERE'S ENOUGH OF THE
CHIMNEY REMAINING.
IT'S HARD TO SAY WHETHER OR NOT
THIS IS HISTORIC MATERIAL.
I KNOW THAT THE WIRE MOLDED
BRICK IS HISTORIC MATERIAL.
IT COULD JUST BE FACED YOU
KNOW, IT COULD BE THE ORIGINAL
CHIMNEY BELOW WITH A YOU KNOW,
A NICE OR BRICK THAT IS MORE
DECORATIVE.
BUT I AGREE I DON'T SUPPORT
REBUILDING IT WITH THE VENEER
MATERIAL THAT IT SHOULD BE IF
RETAIN SHOULD BE REPAIRED WITH
THE EXISTING MATERIALS ANY
OTHER COMMENT ON THAT?
I SUPPORT REMOVING THE CHIMNEY
BUT NOT REPLACING THEM
.
>> YEAH, THIS ONE IS MORE
DIFFICULT.
IT'S SO INTERESTING THAT WE
HAVE THESE TWO CHIMNEY PROJECTS
IN ONE HEARING BUT IT IS
HELPFUL ACTUALLY BUT I THINK
THAT THIS ONE IS MORE DIFFICULT
FOR SURE FOR THE REASONS STATED
I STILL SUPPORT REMOVING IT
BECAUSE OF THE I DON'T KNOW IF
IT'S HISTORIC MATERIAL OR NOT.
IT YEAH I THINK THAT YEAH.
ANYWAY I SUPPORT REMOVING
BECAUSE I DON'T KNOW THAT IT'S
HISTORIC MATERIAL AND IT
APPEARS TO NOT BE HISTORIC
MATERIAL TO ME IT'S A REAL I'M
RIGHT ON THE EDGE.
IT'S VERY CLOSE JUST BECAUSE
OF THE THE NEIGHBORHOOD CONTEXT
WHICH IS THAT THAT THAT IS
CLEARLY MORE IMPORTANT IN THIS
CONTEXT BUT IT'S NOT SWAYING ME
TO TO SAY IT IT SHOULD NOT BE
REMOVED ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS
OF BOTH.
>> WELL, THAT THAT'S ONE PART
OF THE OCEAN THE I THINK TO ME
JUST JUST TO I GUESS ADD ONE
OTHER TO THAT IF THE APPLICANT
IS PROPOSING TO RETAIN THE I
UNDERSTAND THE PROPOSING TO
REMOVE THE CHIMNEY THAT REBUILD
IT IN ITS EXACT LOCATION BUT
WITH MATERIALS THAT ARE NOT
TRUE TO THE THE REPLICATION
PROCESS.
SO I THINK THERE'S SOME INTENT
TO TO MAINTAIN THAT THAT FORM
AND MAINTAIN THE CHIMNEY WITHIN
THIS PRESENCE THAT THAT'S PART
OF THE CHARACTER OF THE HOUSE
AND PART OF MAYBE A CHARACTER
OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
SO I THINK THAT'S AN IMPORTANT
POINT FOR THIS APPLICATION AND
I WOULD QUESTION WHY THERE'S
NOT I GUESS A DESIRE TO, YOU
KNOW, REPORT OR REPAIR WHAT'S
THERE THE ONE PHOTO THAT WE
HAVE IN HERE, IT DOESN'T LOOK
LIKE THAT DETERIORATION IS THAT
TERRIBLE?
UM, YOU KNOW, PROBABLY DOES
NEED SOME TYPE POINTING AND
MAYBE SOME, YOU KNOW, NEW
SEALANT OR CALL THAT I WOULD
SAY THAT FOR THIS APPLICATION
THE INTENT IS TO RETAIN THAT
FEATURE TO SOME DEGREE.
SO I WOULD SUPPORT OR NOT
SUPPORT REMOVING BASED ON THE
DISCUSSION THAT WE'VE HAD THUS
FAR.
BUT THEY WANT TO REMOVE IT FROM
THE SECOND AND FIRST.
RIGHT.
BUT THEY DIDN'T WANT TO SEE
MORE TO COME UP ABOUT RIGHT NOW
AND IT'S IT'S WE'VE ASKED
MULTIPLE TIMES AND I'VE SEEN IN
MULTIPLE HOUSES THE RETAINING
THE CHIMNEY IS POSSIBLE FROM A
CERTAIN POINT UP SO TYPICALLY
YOU WANT TO MAINTAIN AT LEAST
SOME OF THE CHIMNEY BELOW NOT
JUST CUT IT AT THE ROOFLINE BUT
IT CAN BE RETAINED WHERE IT'S
YOU KNOW, IT MAY BE FROM ATTIC
LINE UP ABOVE AND IT'S
SUPPORTED BELOW THAT IT'S NOT A
COMMON FEATURE REQUEST AND IT
HAS BEEN DONE I SAID THAT'S
WHERE I STAND BASED ON THE
GUIDELINES IN THE APPLICATION
.
YEAH, I THINK ON THIS ONE I'M
FOR RETAINING AND I THINK THEIR
THEIR PROPOSAL TO REPLACE IT IS
ACKNOWLEDGMENT THAT IT'S A
FEATURE OF POST
.
I ALSO HAVE A QUESTION GARDEN
WINDOW.
YEAH IF IF THEY WERE REPLACING
IT WITH ANOTHER GARDEN WINDOW
IT WAS JUST A LITTLE SHALLOWER
THEN I WOULD HAVE NO CONCERNS
BECAUSE IT CLEARLY IS A NEW
FEATURE NOT THE STORY BUT IF
WE'RE BUILDING OUT THIS WINDOW
MATCHING THE SIDING, IS THERE
ENOUGH DISTINCTION THAT THIS
WASN'T SOMEHOW ORIGINALLY BUILT
THAT WAY?
I AGREE.
I THINK IT'S AN ODD FEATURE TO
ADD.
I MEAN I THINK THAT LIKE YOU'RE
SAYING, IT'S NOT JUST A
REPLACEMENT GARDEN WINDOW.
IT'S CREATING AN ADDITIONAL
FEATURE ON THE HOUSE THAT THAT
THE BUILT ITEM THEN IT MAKES IT
A LITTLE BIT HARDER TO
DISTINGUISH IT.
THAT WAS AN OPENING.
I MEAN I THINK IT'S IT'S STILL
COULD BE CLEAR BUT NOW THERE'S
ADDITIONAL SIDING ON THE HOUSE.
IT'S IT'S ADDING ANOTHER ROOF
ELEMENT
AND WE DON'T REALLY
HAVE ANYTHING IN THE GUIDELINES
I GUESS ABOUT IT OTHER THAN
IT'S IT'S KIND OF LIKE IT'S
JUST A LITTLE WELL THERE IS LOT
ABOUT ADDED FEATURES.
YEAH.
KNOW YOU SHOULDN'T I MEAN I GET
A FEELING LIKE WITH THE FOLKS
THAT WE'RE KIND OF CREATING
FALSE HISTORY HERE.
SORRY KNOW ON A VERY SUNNY DAY
I WAKE UP NO BACK IT WAS THAT
ONE DESIGNING AND CONSTRUCTING
A NEW FEATURE NO HISTORIC
FEATURE WAS THERE OK OK I WAS
JUST GOING TO LOOK AT THE
SKY.
YEAH NEW DESIGN I'M JUST
LOOKING AT WINDOWS THAT'S
COMPLETELY MISSING REPLACING IT
WITH NEW INFORMATION ACCURATE
DOCUMENTATION OF THE ORIGINAL
AND NEW DESIGN COMPATIBLE WITH
THE ORIGINAL OPENING A HISTORIC
CHARACTER THE BUILDING
MATERIALS OTHER THAN WHAT WILL
BE REVIEWED BY THE COMMISSION
ON A CASE BY CASE BASIS.
>> I AGREE THAT IT WOULD BE
MORE OF A SLAM DUNK PROPOSAL IF
THEY JUST COMPLETELY REMOVE THE
THE BOX AND PUT IN ANOTHER A
COMPATIBLE WINDOW.
BUT SINCE THAT GARDEN BOX IS
THERE AND THE ORIGINAL WINDOW
IS GONE, THIS ISN'T AS GOOD AS
IT COULD BE BUT IT STILL SEEMS
LIKE IT IT'S NOT GOING TO BE
CONFUSING THAT IT WAS THERE
BECAUSE IT'S GOING TO BE A NEW
WINDOW IN A NEW OPENING THE NEW
WINDOW IN A NEW OPENING.
>> BUT IT'S IT'S EXTENDED FROM
THE FACE OF THE HOUSE.
YEAH.
BY CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL.
SO IT'S LIKE THE ADDITIONAL
SIDING THAT I LIKE IF IT WAS
MAYBE YOU KNOW, TRIMMED OUT IN
CASING, I FEEL LIKE IN SOME WAY
THAT WOULD BE A LITTLE BIT
BETTER.
>> AND IF IT DIDN'T HAVE THE
FULL ROOF OVERHANG IT'S I WAS
ASSUMING THAT IT WAS TRIMMED
OUT IN CASING.
>> WHAT WHAT DID I MISS THE
PORTION THAT STICKS OUT FROM
THE WALL?
HE SAID THEY'RE GOING TO FINISH
THAT WITH SIDING SIDING TO
MATCH THE HOUSE FROM THE EASY
THING TO SPECIFY.
YEAH, WOULD YOU BE MORE
COMFORTABLE IF IT WAS ALL
CASING?
I MEAN THAT SEEMS EASY ENOUGH.
YES.
THE HOMEOWNER AND I'M JUST
LOOKING AT THE WINDOWS AND NOT
RECOMMENDED INTRODUCING DESIGN
THAT'S NOT COMPATIBLE WITH THIS
STORE CHARACTER OF THE BUILDING
.
I MEAN FOR SURE IF THE ORIGINAL
WINDOW IS THERE.
YEAH I WANT TO PUT THIS IN
FORGET IT.
OH YEAH IT'S GOT HIS HAND
RAISED.
GO AHEAD PLEASE.
SORRY.
>> THANK YOU.
>> BUT JUST TO BE CLEAR WE WE
DO WE WOULD PREFER TO JUST
REMOVE THE CHIMNEY IF THAT WE
CAN DO THE IDEA WITH FULL PART
WAS JUST TO MAYBE SATISFY THE
IDEA YOU STILL HAVE A CHIMNEY
EXPOSED ABOVE THE ROOFLINE AS
FAR AS THE WINDOW GOES.
YEAH WE WOULD PUT TRIM OR
KASEEM NOT NOT SIDING AROUND
THE LITTLE GARDEN WINDOW INSIDE
THE HOUSE SO THE THREE SIDES
THAT ARE VISIBLE THAT WOULD
NEED TO TRIM WOULD BE TRIM AS
OPPOSED TO SIDING.
>> YEAH YES YES YES.
OK
.
THE REMAINDER OF THE WORK I
THINK IS VERY STRAIGHTFORWARD.
HAVE ANY COMMENT ON THE
REPLACEMENT WINDOWS OR THE
DOORS RIGHT.
DID SEE THESE GUYS DOING TO AND
FROM THE BEGINNING HE DOESN'T
WANT TO DO JUST WHAT HE SAID.
RIGHT.
CAN WE STRIKE THAT FROM THE
ASSOCIATED FROM THE PROPOSED
SHOULD I DO THAT OR SOMETHING?
I WAS WAS THIS I'M YOUR
EMOTIONAL BEVERLEY'S THIS IS
BEVERLY.
ARE YOU ALL RIGHT WITH THIS
AMENDMENT TO YOUR MOTION TO
STRIKE AND INSTALL A NEW
FORTUNY USING BRICK VENEER AND
AFTER FOUR SKYLIGHTS AD AND A
REPLACEMENT GARDEN WINDOW TRIM
DOWN CASING SHE SAID THAT OK.
ALL RIGHT SO SO ONLY IN THE
MOTION IS TO REMOVE THE CHIMNEY
CORRECT?
YES.
SO THAT'S THE REMOVE MASONRY
CHIMNEY STILL IN THE MOTION.
CAN WE SPLIT THE MOTION AND IT
SEEMS LIKE THERE'S ONLY ONE
CONTROVERSIAL PART.
YEAH YEAH YEAH.
DO WE DO THIS SO I DON'T KNOW
YOU CAN I DON'T KNOW HOW CLOSE
WE ARE EITHER WAY.
YEAH YOU CAN DECIDE IT IF YOU
WANT TO VOTE ON IT AS IS OR OR
HAVE BEVERLY TAKE REMOVE A
MASONRY CHIMNEY OUT AND VOTE ON
THAT REALLY WHICH SEEMS LIKE
THE SAFER ROUND.
YEAH I THINK I THINK WE SHOULD
DO THAT SO LET'S GIVE THEM THE
THINGS WE DON'T OK YOU'RE OK
WITH THAT BEFORE YOU DO ARE WE
SPECIFYING ANYTHING ABOUT THE
GARDEN WINDOW OR OTHER THAT IT
WOULD BE TRIMMED TRIMMED CASING
CASING
.
OK SO TO BE CLEAR THAT THE THE
WORK FOR THE CHIMNEY HAS BEEN
REMOVED FROM THIS MOTION.
YEAH.
AND THE UH GARDEN WINDOW HAS
BEEN MODIFIED TO BE TURNED DOWN
CASING.
>> YES.
OK ARE WE READY TO VOTE ON THIS
MOTION.
YEAH WELL THOSE IN FAVOR
OF THIS MOTION PLEASE SAY YES
YES YES YES ALL THOSE OPPOSED
PLEASE SAY NO.
>> WE HAVE MOTION FOR THE
CHIMNEY.
WE'RE COMMISSIONER FORTNER I
MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION ISSUE
A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT THREE FIFTEEN
MULHOLLAND AVENUE, A
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
TO BE PLACE FOR ME FIND MY
PLACE HERE TO REMOVE A MASONRY
CHIMNEY I PROPOSED AS PROPOSED
WE HAVE A SECOND ON THE MOTION
SECOND LINE RIGHT.
ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION ON THE
CHIMNEY OF THOSE IN FAVOR
OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, YES.
THERE'S A POST.
>> PLEASE SAY NO, NO, NO.
WELL THE MOTION PASSES ALL
RIGHT.
THE MOTION PASSES THREE TO TWO.
WE DON'T NEED TO FOR THE
SUPERMAJORITY NOW OK NOW THANK
YOU.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
THANKS TO ONE.
>> THANK YOU.
DID YOU UNDERSTAND EVERYTHING
THAT JUST HAPPENED TO IT LIKE
EVERYTHING GOT APPROVED THAT I
CORRECT.
WE CAN REMOVE THE CHIMNEY.
NO IT WAS APPROVED.
IT IS WHITE.
>> YES, YES, YES, YES.
YOU CAN REMOVE THE CHIMNEY AND
YOU DO NOT HAVE TO REBUILD A
CHIMNEY.
YES.
BUILDING YOU CAN TAKE YEAH OK
OK THANK YOU.
SORRY THAT WAS ALL RIGHT.
>> THANKS GUYS VERY WELL THANK
YOU.
OK THAT IS ALL FOR THE HEARINGS
FOR TONIGHT ONTO ITEM G NEW
BUSINESS STAFF APPROVAL'S WITH
ADDITIONS REQUIRED WINDOWS AND
SIGNS.
ALL RIGHT, LET ME FIND THAT.
SO THERE IS A MEMO IN YOUR
PACKAGE AT THE ANNUAL RETREAT
WE TALKED ABOUT TO ADDITIONS TO
THE STAFF PREVIOUS LIST ONE
WITH SIGNS SIGNS HAVE BECOME
PRETTY ROUTINE WHEN THEY COME
BEFORE THE COMMISSION AND WE
HAVEN'T HAD A CONTROVERSIAL ONE
IN A WHILE.
SO THIS LANGUAGE IS PROPOSED TO
BE ADDED TO LET'S SEE TO THE
EXISTING NUMBER THIRTY ONE
INSTEAD OF JUST ADDRESSING
LIGHTING ONSIDES IT WOULD NOW
READ SIGNS AND LIGHTING SIGNS
PROVIDED THE WORK MEETS THE
REQUIREMENTS OF THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES AND
DESIGN GUIDELINES AND HAS NO
VISIBLE JUNCTION BOXES AND
MINIMAL VISIBLE CONDUIT.
THAT'S A GOOD INCENTIVE TO HIDE
YOUR JUNCTION BOXES AND I SAID
MINIMAL VISIBLE CAN DO IT
BECAUSE IF THERE'S ALREADY A
PENETRATION NEARBY THEY'VE GOT
TO RUN TWO FEET A CONDUIT.
I DON'T WANT TO DRILL A NEW
HOLE IN THE WALL BUT IF THERE
IS NO WALL THEN IT SHOULD I
MEAN IF THERE IS NO HOLE IN THE
WALL THEN IT SHOULD BE AS
LITTLE CONDUIT AS POSSIBLE.
SO DO YOU THINK WE'LL ONLY LIKE
WILL WE NOT SEE ANY SIGN YOU
OZOLS AFTER THIS YOU'LL ONLY
SEE WHY WOULD THEY COME REALLY
WACKY OR REALLY LARGE OR REALLY
YEAH.
OR THINGS THAT I LOOK AT AND GO
OH I DON'T KNOW WHAT I WANT TO
DO WITH THAT.
THE OTHER THING ON HERE IS CLAD
WINDOW US WE'VE TALKED ABOUT
THIS A LITTLE BIT ALSO ON
RECENT APPLICATIONS AND NUMBER
THIRTY IT WOULD BE A BRAND NEW
ITEM ON THE STAFF APPROVAL
REPLACEMENT OF POST NINETEEN
FORTY FOUR WOULD WINDOWS WITH
CLAD WOOD WINDOWS THAT MEET THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES ON THE FOLLOWING
CONDITIONS.
THE WINDOWS ARE NOT VISIBLE
FROM THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY.
THE DIMENSIONS OF THE GLASS
SURFACE OF THE WOOD WINDOWS IS
MAINTAINED AND THE WOOD WINDOWS
ARE NOT REPLICAS OF THE
BUILDING'S PRE 1945 WINDOWS AND
NO SPECIFICATIONS OF THE
BUILDING'S PRE 1945 WINDOWS
EXIST SO WE DON'T WANT TO LOSE
HISTORIC REPLICAS.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME IF IT'S ON
THE BACK AND IT'S ALREADY BEEN
REPLACED THIS IS SAYING IT
WOULD BE OK.
AND WHAT WAS THE THINKING FOR
NOT VISIBLE FROM THE PUBLIC
RIGHT AWAY?
I MEAN IT SEEMS OBVIOUS BUT
LIKE YEAH.
DO YOU THINK THAT THAT SEEMED
LIKE IF IT'S VISIBLE WE MIGHT
NOT APPROVE IT POSSIBLY.
>> I THINK IN PART BECAUSE THIS
CAME UP ON THOSE TWO DOWNTOWN
AND ST. LARGE COMMERCIAL
BUILDINGS.
YEAH, VERY VISIBLE.
SO I THINK THIS IS BABY STEPS.
OK, RIGHT.
IF THIS WORKS OUT OK YOU MAYBE
LATER ON DOWN THE ROAD.
YEAH IF WE JUST APPROVE OF THE
YEAH YEAH OK YEAH MEET THE
OTHER BUT IF WE SEE SOME
WINDOWS THAT GO IN THAT ON THE
BACKS OF HOUSES SOMEHOW THAT
REALLY DON'T YOU KNOW JIVE WITH
THE
STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES WE
MIGHT WANT TO RETHINK IT OR
WE'VE REPLACED ALL THE WINDOWS
THE FRONT THE BUILDINGS TO
RIGHT YEAH IT KIND OF KEEPS US
I GUESS LIKE YOU'RE SAYING THE
NON FILM POSSIBLY CHARACTER
DEFINING BUT NOT VISIBLE FROM
THE RIGHT WAY.
YEAH.
WITHIN A VERY SPECIFIC I THINK
GUIDELINE.
OK, GOOD FOR I WOULD NEED I
WOULD NEED A MOTION FROM ANYONE
TO PASS THAT SUPPORT THE OK I
MOVE TO PASS THE MODIFICATION
TO STAFF APPROVALS LIST FOR
CLOUD WINDOWS AND SIGNS.
THANK YOU FOR ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY
YES YES YES YES SOME OF THOSE
OPPOSED PLEASE SAY NO EMOTION
CARES.
THANK YOU.
ITEM TWO FOR FIFTEEN WITH
WASHINGTON DISCUSSION EARLIER
TODAY I SENT OUT A DRAFT OF A
MEMO IF ANYONE WOULD LIKE A
PAPER COPY OF IT IF YOU DIDN'T
HAVE TIME TO READ IT OR
SOMETHING OR DON'T HAVE IN
FRONT OF YOU I'VE GOT ONE EXTRA
HERE AT THE AT THE ANNUAL
RETREAT THERE WAS DISCUSSION AT
THE END JUST FOR A MINUTE NOT
SO MUCH ON THE PROJECT BUT
ABOUT WANTING TO DISCUSS THE
PROJECT MORE IN A MEETING AND
HOW BEST TO EXPRESS SOME OF THE
COMMISSION'S THOUGHTS TO CITY
COUNCIL.
SO I DID MEET WITH OTHER CITY
STAFF ON HOW BEST TO DO THAT
BECAUSE TYPICALLY YOU GUYS PASS
A RESOLUTION AND AND CONVEY IT
AND IT'S GOT ALL THE WHEREASES
AND THEREFORE IS AND AND WE
DECIDED THAT IT WOULD BE OK TO
DO IT THIS WAY.
SO I'VE DRAFTED A PROPOSED
MEMORANDUM YOU CAN TAKE IT OR
LEAVE IT WHATEVER AND AT THE
END YOU'LL SEE THAT IT SAYS AT
THEIR APRIL 13 REGULAR MEETING
THE HGC VOTED TO TRANSMIT THIS
MEMO TO CITY COUNCIL.
YOU PROBABLY DON'T CARE ABOUT
ANY OF THIS BUT I'M JUST
LETTING YOU KNOW THAT IT'S
SOMETHING NEW THAT I LEARNED
SCHOOL.
SO WHAT I'VE PUT IN HERE IS A
FRIENDLY HELLO TO CITY COUNCIL
.
THANKS FOR LETTING US LOOK AT
THIS STUFF EARLY.
THERE IS A TYPO THAT I'LL GET
TO IN A SECOND.
THE LET'S SEE IT STATES THAT
YOU LOOKED AT THIS AT A WORKING
SESSION ON MARCH NINE THAT IT'S
NOT AN ACTUAL PROJECT SO YOU
DON'T HAVE DETAILED THOUGHTS
THAT YOU CAN SHARE ON IT YET.
BUT THEN THE THIRD PARAGRAPH
DOES TALK ABOUT THE POINTS THAT
YOU IDENTIFIED AS THINGS THAT
YOU'LL BE LOOKING AT MORE
CLOSELY AND HOW THEY FIT IN TO
THE DESIGN GUIDELINES AND SORT
OF SORT OF THE ANGLE THAT THE
ATTACK IS COMING AT THIS FROM
THERE IS A TYPO IN HERE.
LET'S SEE THE LAST SENTENCE
SAYS THIS IS APPLICABLE ON THE
NORTH SIDE AS WELL.
THAT SHOULD BE S SIDE.
SO I'M GOING TO CHANGE THAT
RIGHT NOW THAT'S REFERENCING
IT.
THAT'S THE THIRD PARAGRAPH LAST
SENTENCE IT SAYS THIS IS
APPLICABLE ON THE SOUTH SIDE AS
WELL THOUGH THE HISTORIC
BUILDINGS ON WEST LIBERTY ARE
TALLER.
IT'S REFERENCING LIBERTY WHICH
IS ON THE SOUTH SIDE OF THE
SITE.
AND THEN THE LAST PARAGRAPH
HERE ON THIS PAGE JUST POINTS
OUT THIS IS THE SECTION OF THE
DESIGN GUIDELINES WITH A LIVE
LINK TO IT.
IF ANYBODY WANTS TO LOOK THEM
UP, THIS IS WHAT THE HGC WILL
BE GOING OVER.
IT'S ALSO KIND OF GUIDANCE FOR
FUTURE DEVELOPERS WHO WANT TO
BID ON BUILDING THIS BUILDING
FOR THE CITY.
SO JUST TO SORT OF I WE'RE OUT
THERE BUT KEEP IT POSITIVE.
IT'S CERTAINLY POSSIBLE TO
BUILD A APPROVABLE BUILDING
THERE BUT IT JUST PROVIDES A
LITTLE BIT OF STEERING AND
GUIDANCE FOR A FUTURE PERSON
WHO WILL BE DOING THAT.
WE'RE STILL SUPER EARLY IN THE
PROCESS SO I REALLY DON'T SEE
THE POINT IN GETTING SUPER
SPECIFIC YET BECAUSE EVERYTHING
COULD CHANGE AND RIGHT NOW
THEY'RE THERE IN ANOTHER NORTH.
IT SHOULD BE SOUTH AND THE
WESTERN.
YES, THAT'S THE SAME AS YOU
THAT'S THE SAME TYPE OF THANK
YOU SO IF YOU'RE OK WITH IT WE
WOULD NEED A MOTION MAKE A
MOTION EXCEPT FOR THE END
OF APRIL 15TH.
TWENTY THREE I HAD A COUPLE
OF COMMENTS.
DO WE GET COMMENTS BEFORE THE
MOTION OR YOU CAN DO THEM AFTER
THE SECOND FIVE.
AND KATHY, THANK YOU.
>> COMMISSIONER RACHLIN
DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION.
YEAH YEAH.
I THOUGHT THAT IT WOULD BE GOOD
TO EMPHASIZE TWO THINGS.
ONE IS IN THE FIRST OF ALL THIS
IS AN EXCELLENT MEMORANDUM.
I WAS SO EXCITED TO SEE IT.
THANK YOU.
AND SO IN THE SECOND PARAGRAPH
I THINK THIS IS REALLY
IMPORTANT TO SAY THAT WHAT
YOU'RE SAYING HERE THAT WE'RE
NOT ACTUALLY RESPONDING TO A
PROJECT.
THIS IS THERE'S NO PROJECT
THAT'S BEEN PROPOSED SO IN THAT
LAST PARAGRAPH LAST SENTENCE
OF THE SECOND PARAGRAPH SINCE
THE WHITE BOX IS NOT AN ACTUAL
PROPOSED PROJECT OR SOME REALLY
MAKE IT CLEAR.
YEAH.
INSTEAD OF SAYING DOES NOT
REPRESENT AN ACTUAL PROPOSED
PROJECT MAYBE NOT IS NOT A
ACTUAL PROPOSED PROJECT.
ABSOLUTELY.
GOT IT.
MY OTHER COMMENT IS IN THE
MIDDLE OF THE NEXT PARAGRAPH
THE TALLEST PART'S OF A NEW
BUILDING AT FOUR FIFTEEN SHOULD
AND I AM PROPOSING SOME
STRONGER LANGUAGE HERE BECAUSE
I THINK THIS IS REALLY OUR
BIGGEST POINT THAT WE WANT TO
MAKE HERE INSTEAD OF SAYING
IDEALLY BE PULLED AWAY WHICH I
DO AGREE WITH MAYBE SOMETHING
MORE LIKE GET RID OF THE
IDEALLY YEAH.
>> SHOULD BE AND THEN I LIKE
PULLED AWAY BUT I WAS ALSO
WONDERING IF SETBACK OR STEPPED
BACK WERE MORE CORRECT OR
SPECIFIC.
I THINK ALL THREE OF THEM COULD
PROBABLY WORK.
I COULD I YEAH.
STEPPED BACK.
THERE ARE DIFFERENT THINGS
THOUGH RIGHT SAID HOLDAWAY
BUILDING.
YEAH STEP BACK A SET BACK
TALLER A HIGHER LEVEL THOUGH
YOU CAN IT CAN BE IT CAN BE AT
GRADE AND BE THERE DEFINITELY
GET RID OF THE IDEA OF YEAH
YEAH YOU'RE YOU'RE SUGGESTING
THAT IT SHOULD BE SET SET BACK
AND BACK.
NO I THINK THAT I WAS I GET
WHAT PULLED AWAY MEANS BUT IF
THERE'S A MORE SPECIFIC WAY TO
SAY IT IN BUILDING LANGUAGE
I'VE JUST THOUGHT WE COULD USE
THAT BUT MAYBE THERE IS AND
PULLED WAY OR SET BACK OR OR
PULLED AWAY I THINK I LEFT IT
IS CLEAR TO THINK I MADE IT
INTENTIONALLY SORT OF COVERING
ALL I DON'T WANT TO PRESCRIBE
SOMETHING RIGHT RIGHT RIGHT.
I DON'T WANT TO SAY IT NEEDS A
BIGGER SETBACK BECAUSE MAYBE IT
DOESN'T YOU KNOW MAYBE IT NEEDS
A BIGGER STEP BACK AND YEAH SO
THAT'S PULLED AWAY WITH THIS.
IT JUST GETS WORSE AS YOU SAY
WITH A SETBACK.
IS THAT BACK HERO LIKE YEAH OK
I THINK THEN JUST KEEP IT
PULLED AWAY BUT YEAH I I VOTE
FOR REMOVE IDEALLY YES OK
IDEALIZE GONE THAT WAS IT.
OK ANYBODY ELSE ANY THOUGHTS I
THANK YOU.
YEAH VERY GOOD.
I APPRECIATE THE ADDITION
POINTING TO THE EXACT
GUIDELINES THAT WERE THERE.
YEAH I THINK THAT'S HELPFUL
BECAUSE I DON'T KNOW THAT A LOT
OF PEOPLE KNOW WE HAVE A WHOLE
SECTION JUST ABOUT A SITE LIKE
THIS WHICH WILL BE USING.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR VOTE ON THIS
DISCUSSION ON THE ACA AS
AMENDED.
>> YES.
WELL I WAS IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION AS AMENDED TO SAY YES,
YES, YES, YES.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY
NEW THANK YOU.
>> ALL RIGHT.
ITEM APPROVAL OF MINUTES WE
RECEIVED MINUTES FOR FEBRUARY
NINE IN MARCH NINE
ISSUES NO
OBJECTION.
RIGHT.
SEE NO OBJECTIONS.
THE MINUTES ARE APPROVED AS
PRESENTED.
THANK YOU.
AND THEN REPORT FROM STAFF.
WE HAVE A COMMISSION WITH MY
REPORT COMMISSIONERS VERY
IMPORTANT SOME COMMISSIONERS
SCROLLING TO WHICH WAY AND
REPORTS OK, UM COMMUNICATIONS
ASSIGNMENTS.
OH MY GOSH I'M CONCERNED.
THANK YOU.
>> SO MONDAY MAY 8TH AT FIVE PM
JENNIFER ROSS IS ALREADY
VOLUNTEERED FOR THIS SO WE'RE
JUST LOOKING FOR ONE MORE
VOLUNTEER HERE FIVE PM BY FIVE
PM.
YEAH, CHECK IN.
>> WE'VE SHIFTED.
YES.
GOOD SIGN WISE.
YEAH YEAH.
OH I WILL NOT BE IN TOWN REALLY
EXCELLENT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ALL RIGHT NOW WE ARE UNDER
I DO
HAVE ONE THING THAT I WANT TO
RAISE JUST BECAUSE I HAVE NO
OTHER WAY OF ADDRESSING THIS
BECAUSE I RECEIVED ANONYMOUS
COMPLAINT.
IT'S IT'S ABOUT CHAIN LINK
FENCES IN THE OLD WEST SIDE AND
THERE ARE THREE HOUSES THAT ARE
LISTED ON HERE THAT STILL HAVE
CHAIN LINK FENCE IS IN THEIR
FRONT YARD AND IT IS STATING
THAT ALL THREE FENCES MUST BE
TAKEN DOWN BECAUSE THE CITY
OF BANARAS OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT GUIDELINES
MUST BE ENFORCED CONSISTENTLY
FAIRLY AND UNIFORMLY.
IT REFERENCES BACK THE PROPERTY
AT THE CORNER OF 617 WEST
MADISON, A TEN YEARS AGO OR SO
WHERE THEY BUILT A NEW FENCE
WITHOUT PERMITS AND THE CDC
SAID NO, THAT FENCE DOESN'T
MEET THE DESIGN GUIDELINES SO
THEY HAD TO TAKE IT DOWN.
THIS IS APPLES AND ORANGES
THOUGH BECAUSE THAT WAS A NEW
FENCE AND THESE ARE EXISTING
FENCES THAT HAVE PREDATED THE
OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
AND WERE NOT INSTALLED, YOU
KNOW, WITH A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS OR ANYTHING.
THEY'RE STILL THERE.
THEY WILL HOPEFULLY EVENTUALLY
GO AWAY.
THAT WOULD BE GREAT FOR THE
NEIGHBORHOOD BUT THEY ARE
ALLOWED TO STAY.
AND JUST TO BE CLEAR, I WOULD
SAY THAT MOST OF THE HOUSES IN
THE OLD WEST SIDE AND MOST
OF OUR NEIGHBORS HISTORIC
DISTRICTS HAVE SOME WORK ON
THEM THAT IS THAT WOULD NOT BE
CONSIDERED APPROPRIATE NOW AND
WE DO NOT GO BACK AND ENFORCE
THINGS RETROACTIVELY THAT HAVE
ALREADY BEEN THERE, ESPECIALLY
DATING FROM BEFORE THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT REQUIRED REVIEW
OF THAT WORK.
SO UNFORTUNATELY WE'RE STUCK
WITH THOSE THREE CHAIN LINK
FENCES UNTIL THE OWNERS DECIDE
TO TAKE THEM DOWN AND THEN
OBVIOUSLY THEY'LL NEVER BE
ALLOWED TO PUT THEM BACK UP
THERE AND DC HASN'T APPROVED
ANY NEW FRONT YARD CHAIN LINK
FENCE.
THEY ONLY ALLOWED THEM IN THE
BACK.
SO WHICH IS NO ONE TO DO.
>> I HAVE NO ONE TO RESPOND TO.
SO I HOPE YOU'RE LISTENING OR
MAYBE YOU KNOW WHO WROTE THIS
LETTER?
SOMEONE OUT THERE AND WE'LL
TELL THEM SO SO I DO THANK YOU
FOR TAKING THE TIME BUT PEOPLE
CAN ALWAYS JUST GIVE ME A CALL
AT SEVEN THREE FOUR SEVEN NINE
FOUR SIX TWO SIX FIVE EXTENSION
FOUR TO SIX OH EIGHT.
LOOK ME UP ON THE WEBSITE.
SEND ME AN EMAIL AND WE CAN
TALK ABOUT CONCERNS LIKE THIS
BECAUSE I DO WANT TO HEAR THEM
AND I WANT TO KNOW WHAT PEOPLE
ARE WORRIED ABOUT IN THE
DISTRICT.
SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU SO VERY GOOD.
OKAY.
>> ANY OTHER COMMUNICATIONS
CONCERNS COMMISSIONER SCOTT?
>> ANY CONCERNS
OF COMMISSIONERS?
I DON'T KNOW NOW ABOUT NO
COMMUNICATION.
THERE ARE TWO LETTERS IN YOUR
PACKET THAT OR AVAILABLE FOR
YOU TO READ.
ONE IS ABOUT 415 WEST
WASHINGTON AND ONE IS IN
SUPPORT OF THE RESOLUTION TO
STUDY COURT.
SO PLEASE TAKE A LOOK AT BOTH
OF THOSE AND THAT'S IT.
THANK YOU.
>> ALL RIGHT.
NOW ADJOURN THE APRIL 13TH
MEETING OF THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION